
SOURCE CHUNK:
outputs/chunks/Made to Stick - Chip and Dan Heath/chunk_039.txt

QUESTIONS TO ANSWER:
1. What problem is this section trying to solve?
2. What principle is being taught?
3. Why does this principle work?
4. When should someone use it?
5. When should someone avoid it?
6. What repeatable framework can be extracted?
7. What examples are given?
8. How could this apply to writing, business, product, or decision-making?

TEXT:
as much Vitamin J as 71 pounds of broc- coli!" (We made this up.) These possibilities are examples of why writing abo ut statistics filled us with anxiety. Particularly in the realm of politics, tinkering with statistics provides lucrative employment for untold numbers of issue advocates. Ethically challenged people with lots of analytical smarts can, with enough contortions, make almost an y case from a given set of statistics. Of course, let's also remember that it's easier to lie without statis- tics than with them. Data enforces boundaries. Unless people are un- ethical enough to make up data, the reality of the data constrains them. That's a good thing, but it still leaves a lot of wiggle room. So what about the rest of us, who aren't spinmeisters? What do we do? We will still be tempted to put the best possible spin on our sta- tistics. All of us do it. "I scored sixteen points for the church basketball team tonight!" (Not mentioned: twenty-two missed shots and the loss of the game.) "I'm five feet six." (Not mentioned: The three-inch heels.) "Revenue was up 10 percent this year, so I think I deserve a bonus." (Not mentioned: Profits tanked.) When it comes to statistics, our best advice is to use them as in- put, not output. Use them to make up your mind on an issue. Don't make up your mind and then go looking for the numbers to support yourself—that's asking for temptation and trouble. But if we use sta- tistics to help us make up our minds, we'll be in a great position to share the pivotal numbers with others, as did Geoff Ainscow and the Beyond War supporters. 148 MADE TO STICK Dealing with Shark Attack Hysteria the situation: Every few years the media go frothy over shark at- tacks. Shark attacks, however, remain extremely rare and do not vary much from one year to the next. So why do they consume so much media and public attention? The answer is that shark attacks spawn terrifying, dream-haunting stories like the following, from The Oprah Winfrey Show: Oprah: Bethany Hamilton loved to ride the waves. Surfing daily since she was 8 years old, Bethany was such a phenom, people said she had salt water running through her veins. At the young age of 13, Bethany was a rising star on the surfing circuit and had become a local celebrity, but what happened next landed Bethany in headlines around the world. It was early morning. Bethany was in the ocean lying on her board with her arm dangling in the water. Suddenly, a deadly fif- teen-foot tiger shark seized her arm. Violently, he jerked and yanked it until her arm was ripped right off of her small body. Sec- onds later the shark and her entire arm were gone, and Bethany was left alone on her board surrounded by bloody water. Imagine that you are forced to combat these vivid stories. Maybe you're the publicity director of the Save the Sharks Foundation, or maybe you're trying to convince your junior high school daughter that it's okay to go to the beach. How do you do it? You've got the truth on
