
SOURCE CHUNK:
outputs/chunks/Made to Stick - Chip and Dan Heath/chunk_002.txt

QUESTIONS TO ANSWER:
1. What problem is this section trying to solve?
2. What principle is being taught?
3. Why does this principle work?
4. When should someone use it?
5. When should someone avoid it?
6. What repeatable framework can be extracted?
7. What examples are given?
8. How could this apply to writing, business, product, or decision-making?

TEXT:
right now and took an hourlong break. In fact, don't even take a break; just call up a friend and retell that passage without rereading it. Good luck. Is this a fair comparison —an urban legend to a che rry-picked bad passage? Of course not. But here's where things get interesting: Think of our two examples as two poles on a spectrum of memorability. Which sounds closer to the communications you encou nter at work? If you're like most people, your workplace gravitates toward the non- profit pole as though it were the North Star. Maybe this is perfectly natural; some ideas are inherently interesting and some are inherently uninteresting. A gang of or gan thieves—inher- ently interesting! Nonprofit financial strategy—inh erently uninterest- ing! It's the nature versus nurture debate applied to ideas: Are ideas born interesting or made interesting? Well, this is a nurture book. So how do we nurture our ideas so they'll succeed in the world? Many of us struggle with how to communicate ideas effectively, how to get our ideas to make a difference. A biology teacher spends an hour explaining mitosis, and a week later only three kids remember what it is. A manager makes a speech unveiling a ne w strategy as the staffers nod their heads enthusiastically, and the next day the front- line employees are observed cheerfully implementing the old one. Good ideas often have a hard time succeeding in the world. Yet the ridiculous Kidney Heist tale keeps circulating, with no resources whatsoever to support it. Why? Is it simply because hijacked kidneys sell better than other topics? Or is it possible to make a true, worthwhile idea circulate as ef- fectively as this false idea? 6 MADE TO STICK The Truth About Movie Popcorn Art Silverman stared at a bag of movie popcorn. It looked out of place sitting on his desk. His office had long since filled up with fake-butter fumes. Silverman knew, because of his organization's research, that the popcorn on his desk was unhealthy. Shockingly unhealthy, in fact. His job was to figure out a way to communicate this message to the unsuspecting moviegoers of America. Silverman worked for the Center for Science in the Public Inter- est (CSPI), a nonprofit group that educates the public about nutri- tion. The CSPI sent bags of movie popcorn from a dozen theaters in three major cities to a lab for nutritional analysis. The results sur- prised everyone. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recom- mends that a normal diet contain no more than 20 grams of saturated fat each day. According to the lab results, the typical bag of popcorn had 37 grams. The culprit was coconut oil, which theaters used to pop their pop- corn. Coconut oil had some big advantages over other oils. It gave the popcorn a nice, silky texture, and released a more pleasant and natu- ral aroma than the alternative oils. Unfortunately, as the lab results showed, coconut oil was also brimming with saturated fat. The single serving of popcorn on Silverman'
