
SOURCE CHUNK:
outputs/chunks/Made to Stick - Chip and Dan Heath/chunk_051.txt

QUESTIONS TO ANSWER:
1. What problem is this section trying to solve?
2. What principle is being taught?
3. Why does this principle work?
4. When should someone use it?
5. When should someone avoid it?
6. What repeatable framework can be extracted?
7. What examples are given?
8. How could this apply to writing, business, product, or decision-making?

TEXT:
appeal is to Esteem—the desire to be compe- tent, to gain approval and status. The most effective part is the part 194 MADE TO STICK about the author's brother, who later realized that his struggles with math paid off. The brother story is an Esteem appeal that builds in an almost Caples-esque victory story. ("They laughed when I botched the equation, but when I won the account . . ."). message 3: This is a response from a high school algebra teacher, Dean Sherman, to an Internet discussion of this topic among high school teachers: My grade 9 students have difficulty appreciating the usefulness of the Standard Form of the equation of a line, prompting them to ask, "When are we ever going to need this?" This question used to really bother me, and I would look, as a re- sult, for justification for everything I taught. Now I say, "Never. You will never use this." I then go on to remind them that people don't lift weights so that they will be prepared should, one day, [someone] knock them over on the street and lay a barbell across their chests. You lift weights so that you can knock over a defensive lineman, or carry your groceries or lift your grandchildren without being sore the next day. You do math exercises so that you can improve your ability to think logically, so that you can be a better lawyer, doctor, architect, prison warden or parent. MATH IS MENTAL WEIGHT TRAINING. It is a means to an end (for most people), not an end in itself. comments on message 3: This is a great response. Note the elements we've seen before in the book: The surprise opening to grab atten- tion ("Never. You will never use this"). Also, the use of analogy is bril- liant—he taps our existing schema of weight lifting to change our model of "learning algebra" (i.e., it's not that in the future you're EMOTIONAL 195 going to have a daily need to find the slope of a line; it's that you're making your brain more muscular). He is also moving up Maslow's hierarchy. The appeal here is to higher levels like Learning and Self-actualization. The idea is that learning algebra makes you realize more of your potential. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Message 3 Simple - - X Unexpected - - X Concrete - X X Credible - - - Emotional - X XX Story - X - punch line: "Math is mental weight training" reminds us that, even in the most mundane situations, there's an opportunity to move out of Maslow's basement and into the higher levels of motivation. Don't Mess with Texas Dan Syrek is the nation's leading researcher on litter. He has worked with sixteen states—from New York to Alaska —on ant ilitter initia- tives. He often begins his projects by selecting random stretches of road—from interstates to farm roads—and walking the roads person- ally, a clicker in each hand, manually counting litter. In the 1980s, Syrek and his Sacramento-based organization, the Institute for Applied Research, were hired by the state of Texas. Texas 196 MADE TO STICK had a serious litter problem. The state was spendi
