Seeing that he'd buy in either scenario, he goes forward with the purchase, despite not knowing the outcome. This decision seems sensible—n ot many peo- ple would quibble with Savage's logic. Two psychologists quibbled. Amos Tversky and Eldar Shafir later published a paper proving that the "sure-thing principle" wasn't always a sure thing. They uncovered situations where the mere exis- tence of uncertainty seemed to alter how people made decisions — even when the uncertainty was irrelevant to the outcome, as with the businessman's purchase. For instance, imagine that you're in college and you've just completed an important final exam a couple of weeks before the Christmas holidays. You'd been studying for this exam for weeks, because it's in a subject that's important to your fu- ture career. You've got to wait two days to get the exam results back. Mean- while, you see an opportunity to purchase a vacation during the holi- days to Hawaii at a bargain-basement price. Here ar e your three options: You can buy the vacation today, pass on it today, or pay a five- dollar fee to lock in the price for two days, which would allow you to make your decision after you got your grade. What would you do? You may feel some desire to know the outcome of your exam before you decide, as did the students who faced this choice in the original ex- periment. So Tversky and Shafir simply removed this uncertainty for two groups of participants. These groups were told up front how they did on the exam. Some students were told that they passed the exam, and 57 percent of them chose to go on the trip (after all, it makes for a good celebration). Other students were told that they failed the exam, and 54 percent of them chose to go on the trip (after all, it makes for 36 good recuperation). Both those who passed and those who failed wanted to go to Hawaii, pronto. Here's the twist: The group of students who, like you, didn't know their final exam results behaved completely differently. The majority of them (61 percent) paid five dollars to wait for two days. Think about that! If you pass, you want to go to Hawaii. If you fail, you want to go to Hawaii. If you don't know whether you passed or failed, you . . . wait and see? This is not the way the "sure-thing principle" is supposed to behave. It's as if our businessman had decided to wait until after the election to buy his property, despite being willing to make the pur- chase regardless of the outcome. Tversky and Shafir's study shows us that uncertaint y—even irrele- vant uncertainty—can paralyze us. Another study, co nducted by Shafir and a colleague, Donald Redelmeier, demonstrates that paral- ysis can also be caused by choice. Imagine, for example, that you are in college and you face the following choice one evening. What would you do? 1. Attend a lecture by an author you admire who is visiting just for the evening, or 2. Go to the library and study. Studying doesn't look so attractive compared with a once in a life- time lecture. When this choice was given to actual college students, only 21 percent decided to study. Suppose, instead, you had been given three choices: 1. Attend the lecture. 2. Go to the library and study. 3. Watch a foreign film that you've been wanting to see. Does your answer differ? Remarkably, when a different group of students were given the three choices, 40 percent d ecided to study— SIMPLE 37 double the number who did before. Giving students t wo good alter- natives to studying, rather than one, paradoxically makes them less likely to choose either. This behavior isn't "rational," but it is human. Prioritization rescues people from the quicksand of decision angst, and that's why finding the core is so valuable. The people who listen to us will be constantly making decisions in an environment of uncertainty. They will suffer anxiety from the need to choose —even when the choice is between two good options, like t he lecture and the foreign film. Core messages help people avoid bad choices by reminding them of what's important. In Herb Kelleher's parable, for instance, some- one had to choose between chicken salad and no chic ken salad—and the message "THE low-fare airline" led her to aband on the chicken salad. Idea Clinics The goal of this book is to help you make your idea s stick. So, period- ically throughout the book, we will present "Idea C linics," which il- lustrate, in practical terms, how an idea can be made stickier. The Clinics were inspired by the classic "before and after" photos used by weight-loss centers—visible evidence that the diet works. Like patients trying a new diet, the initial ideas in the Clinics vary in their need for change; some need dramatic help, like a stomach-stapling and lipo- suction, and some only need to lose a few pounds around the waist- line. The point of the Clinics is not to wow you with our creative ge- nius, and it's fortunate for readers and authors alike that this is not the goal, because we are not creative geniuses. The poin t is simply to model the process of making ideas stickier. In contrast to traditional disclaimers, this is something you should try at home. Think about each message and consider how you would improve it using the prin- ciples in the book. 38 MADE TO STICK You can safely skip the Clinics—they are intended a s sidebars to the text, rather than as building blocks—but we hop e you'll find them useful. Warning: Sun Exposure Is Dangerous the situation: Health educators at Ohio State University want to in- form the academic community about the risks of sun exposure. message 1: Here's a Web page with facts about sun exposure from Ohio State University. We've added numbers to each paragraph so that we can analyze the message later: Sun Exposure: Precautions and Protection (1) A golden, bronze tan is often considered a status symbol. Per- haps this supports the idea that people who have time to lie in the sun long enough to develop a deep tan, or who can travel to warm climates during winter, have more money or leisure time than "com- mon folk." Nevertheless, the goal of many is a deep tan early in spring or to return from vacation with that hearty, healthy glow. Whether a tan suggests status or not, careless exposure to the sun can be harmful. Ultraviolet rays from the sun will damage skin but can also create vision problems, allergic reactions, and depressed immune systems. SIMPLE 39 (2) Tanning and burning are caused by ultraviolet rays from the sun. These rays cannot be seen or felt, but penetrate the skin and stimulate cells containing a brownish pigment called melanin. Melanin protects the skin by absorbing and scattering ultraviolet rays. People with dark skins have high amounts of melanin, have greater natural protection from ultraviolet rays, and tan more easily. Blondes, redheads, and people with fair skins have less melanin and, there- fore,