is remarkable. Think about all the memorable ele- ments: The impossible mission. The elimination of all but 38 of 8,000 chemicals. The factory's water turned so clean that Swiss in- spectors thought their instruments were broken. The scraps were transformed from hazardous waste into crop insulation. The idea that this fabric was "safe enough to eat." And the happy business result- workers made safer and costs down 20 percent. If McDonough approaches any business, in any industr y, with a suggestion for a more environment-friendly process, this story will give him enormous credibility. It easily clears the bar set by the Sinatra Test. So far we've talked about creating credibility by drawing on exter- nal sources—authorities and antiauthorities. And we 've talked about creating credibility by drawing on sources inside the message itself— by using details and statistics and examples that pass the Sinatra Test. But there's one remaining source of credibility that we haven't dis- cussed. And it may be the most powerful source of all. Where's the Beef? One of the most brilliant television ad campaigns of all time was launched by Wendy's in 1984. The first commercial o pens on three elderly women standing together at a counter. On the counter there's a hamburger on a plate, and they're gawking at it, because it's huge — about a foot in diameter. "It certainly is a big bun," says the woman oit the left. "A very big bun," echoes the one in the center. "A big, fluffy bun," says the first. "A very big fluffy . . ." There's a pause as the woman in the middle lifts the top half of the bun and reveals a meager, overcooked beef patty and a single pickle. The patty is dwarfed by the bun. 156 MADE TO STICK For the first time, we hear from the woman on the right, played by eighty-year-old Clara Peller. She squints through her glasses and says, cantankerously, "Where's the beef?" The announcer says, "Some hamburger places give you a lot less beef on a fluffy bun. . . ." Peller: "Where's the beef?" Announcer: "The Wendy's Single has more beef than t he Whop- per or the Big Mac. At Wendy's you get more beef and less bun." Peller: "Hey! Where's the beef?" She peers over the counter. "I don't think there's anybody back there." There's a lot to love about these commercials. They're funny and well produced. Clara Peller became a minor celebrit y. More remark- ably, the ads highlighted a true advantage of Wendy's hamburgers: They really did have more beef. The ads were a refreshing departure from the standard advertiser tool kit that attempts to paint powerful but irrelevant emotions on consumer goods—for insta nce, associating a mother's love of her children with a particular brand of fabric sof- tener. Wendy's did something more admirable: It highlighted a gen- uine advantage of its product and presented it in an enjoyable way. The ads had a big impact. According to polls taken by Wendy's, the number of customers who believed that Wendy's Single was larger than the Whopper or the Big Mac increased by 47 percent in the two months after the commercial aired. During the first full year after the ads ran, Wendy's revenues rose 31 percent. The claim Wendy's had made was that its burgers had more beef. This information was probably not something most people would have given much thought to before. Certainly it was not common sense at the time. So how did Wendy's make this claim credible? Notice that something different is going on here. T his message doesn't draw on external credibility—Wendy's didn't invite Larry Bird to weigh in on burger sizes. (Nor did it use an antiauthority, like an obese burger-eating giant.) It doesn't draw on internal credibility, either, quoting a statistic like "11 percent more beef!" Instead, the CREDIBLE 157 commercials developed a brand-new source of credibil ity: the audi- ence. Wendy's outsourced its credibility to its customers. The spots implicitly challenged customers to verify Wendy's claims: See for yourself — look at our burgers versus McDon ald's burg- ers. You'll notice the size difference! To use scientific language, Wendy's made a falsifiable claim. Any customer with a ruler and a scale could have verified the claim's truth value. (Though Wendy's advantage was sufficiently substantial that just eyeballing the differ- ence was enough.) This challenge—asking customers to test a claim for them- selves—is a "testable credential." Testable credent ials can provide an enormous credibility boost, since they essentially allow your audi- ence members to "try before they buy." Testable Credentials Testable credentials have a colorful history in urban legends. In the 1990s, Snapple struggled to shake rumors that it supported the Ku Klux Klan. Rumormongers thought they had a few pieces of "evi- dence" on their side: "Look on any bottle of Snapple —there's a pic- ture of a slave ship on the front!" Doubters were also encouraged to look for the strange symbol showing a K inside a circle—allegedly, evidence of the Klan's ownership. Sure enough, Snapple's labels did feature a picture of a ship and a K in a circle. They just had nothing to do with the Klan. The ship was from an engraving of the Boston Tea Party. The circled K is a symbol for "kosher." But some uninformed people saw these symbols and bought into the rumors. Notice that the Snapple rumor provides a kind of bait-and-switch version of "Where's the Beef?" Wendy's says, "See for yourself—our burgers have more beef." The Rumormongers say, "See for your- self—there's a circled K. Therefore Snapple supports the Ku Klux Klan." The validity of the see-for-yourself claim causes some people 158 MADE TO STICK to leap, illogically, to the rumormongers' conclusion. This is how testable credentials can backfire —the "see for you rself" step can be valid, while the resulting conclusion can be entirely invalid. Testable credentials are useful in many domains. For example, take the question "Are you better off now than you were four years ago?" Ronald Reagan famously posed this question to the audience during his 1980 presidential debate with Jimmy Carter. Reagan could have focused on statistics—the high inflation rate, the loss of jobs, the rising interest rates. But instead of selling his case he de- ferred to his audience. Another example of testable credentials comes from Jim Thomp- son, the founder of the Positive Coaching Alliance (PCA). The mis- sion of the PCA is to emphasize that youth sports should not be about winning at all costs; it should be about learning life lessons. The PCA holds positive-coaching seminars for youth sports coaches. At the seminars, trainers use the analogy of an "Emotional Tank" to get coaches to think about the right ratio of praise, support, and critical feedback. "The Emotional Tank is like the gas tank of an automobile. If your car's tank is empty, you can't drive very far. If your Emotional Tank is empty, you are not going to be able to perform at your best." After the Emotional Tank analogy is introduced, the trainers begin an exercise. First, they ask the coaches to imagine that the per- son next to them has just