appeal is to Esteem—the desire to be compe- tent, to gain approval and status. The most effective part is the part 194 MADE TO STICK about the author's brother, who later realized that his struggles with math paid off. The brother story is an Esteem appeal that builds in an almost Caples-esque victory story. ("They laughed when I botched the equation, but when I won the account . . ."). message 3: This is a response from a high school algebra teacher, Dean Sherman, to an Internet discussion of this topic among high school teachers: My grade 9 students have difficulty appreciating the usefulness of the Standard Form of the equation of a line, prompting them to ask, "When are we ever going to need this?" This question used to really bother me, and I would look, as a re- sult, for justification for everything I taught. Now I say, "Never. You will never use this." I then go on to remind them that people don't lift weights so that they will be prepared should, one day, [someone] knock them over on the street and lay a barbell across their chests. You lift weights so that you can knock over a defensive lineman, or carry your groceries or lift your grandchildren without being sore the next day. You do math exercises so that you can improve your ability to think logically, so that you can be a better lawyer, doctor, architect, prison warden or parent. MATH IS MENTAL WEIGHT TRAINING. It is a means to an end (for most people), not an end in itself. comments on message 3: This is a great response. Note the elements we've seen before in the book: The surprise opening to grab atten- tion ("Never. You will never use this"). Also, the use of analogy is bril- liant—he taps our existing schema of weight lifting to change our model of "learning algebra" (i.e., it's not that in the future you're EMOTIONAL 195 going to have a daily need to find the slope of a line; it's that you're making your brain more muscular). He is also moving up Maslow's hierarchy. The appeal here is to higher levels like Learning and Self-actualization. The idea is that learning algebra makes you realize more of your potential. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Message 3 Simple - - X Unexpected - - X Concrete - X X Credible - - - Emotional - X XX Story - X - punch line: "Math is mental weight training" reminds us that, even in the most mundane situations, there's an opportunity to move out of Maslow's basement and into the higher levels of motivation. Don't Mess with Texas Dan Syrek is the nation's leading researcher on litter. He has worked with sixteen states—from New York to Alaska —on ant ilitter initia- tives. He often begins his projects by selecting random stretches of road—from interstates to farm roads—and walking the roads person- ally, a clicker in each hand, manually counting litter. In the 1980s, Syrek and his Sacramento-based organization, the Institute for Applied Research, were hired by the state of Texas. Texas 196 MADE TO STICK had a serious litter problem. The state was spending $25 million per year on cleanup, and the costs were rising 15 perce nt per year. The state's attempts to encourage better behavior—"Plea se Don't Litter" signs, lots of roadside trash cans marked "Pitch In"—weren't work- ing. Texas hired Syrek to help craft a new strategy. The standard antilitter message is emotional, but it tends to focus on a limited set of emotions. There are appeals to guilt and shame, as in a spot that shows a Native American shedding a tear over litter. There are also appeals to our feelings for cuddly wildlife, such as the campaign starring a cartoon owl who says, "Give a Hoot—Don't Pol- lute." Syrek knew that this type of messaging wouldn't solve Texas's problem. In his view, those kinds of ads are just "preaching to the choir." What Texas needed to do was reach people wh o weren't in- clined to shed tears over roadside trash. The profile of the typical lit- terer in Texas was an eighteen- to thirty-five-year-old, pickup-driving male who liked sports and country music. He didn't like authority and he wasn't motivated by emotional associations with cuddly owls. One member of the Texas Department of Transportation said, "Say- ing 'please' to these guys falls on deaf ears." "We found that people who throw the stuff are real slobs," Syrek says. You had to explain to them that what they were doing was lit- tering." Syrek kept with him a photo of a macho-looking man in a pickup truck. "This is our target market," he said. "We call him Bubba." Designing an antilitter campaign based on self-interest wasn't likely to work with this group. After all, what do the Bubbas really have to gain by not littering? Throwing things away properly takes ef- fort, for which there are no obvious rewards. The situation doesn't lend itself to a greed or sex-based appeal, a la Caples. It might be pos- sible to design a fear-based approach —highlighting hefty fines or other punishments —but the Bubbas' antiauthority st reak would likely render it useless (or even cause it to backfire). EMOTIONAL 197 Syrek knew that the best way to change Bubba's behavior was to convince him that people like him did not litter. Based on his re- search, the Texas Department of Transportation approved a cam- paign built around the slogan "Don't Mess with Texa s." One of the earliest TV commercials featured two Dallas Cowboy players who were famous in Texas: defensive end Ed "Too-Tall" Jones and defensive tackle Randy White. In the spot, they're picking up trash on the side of a highway: Too-Tall Jones steps toward the camera and says, "Y ou see the guy who threw this out the window ... you tell him I got a message for him." Randy White steps forward with a beer can and says, "I got a message for him too..." An off-camera voice asks, "What's that?" White crushes the can with his fist and says threateningly, "Well, I kinda need to see him to deliver it." Too-Tall Jones adds, "Don't mess with Texas." This commercial is a far cry from cute owls and weepy Native Amer- icans. Another ad features Houston Astros pitcher Mike Scott, famous for his split-fingered fastball. Scott says that throwing stuff away is "the Texas thing to do." He demonstrates his "split-fingered trashball," hurling some litter into a roadside can, which explodes with a pillar of fire. Subtle stuff. The campaign featured athletes and musicians, most of whom probably weren't household names outside Texas but were all well- known to Texans as Texans: Houston Oiler quarterback Warren Moon, boxer George Foreman, blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan, and country artist Jerry Jeff Walker. Willie Nelson contributed an ad with the line "Mamas, tell all your babies, 'Don't mess with Texas.'" But isn't this just a garden-variety celebrity endorsement? No, it's 198 MADE TO STICK more subtle than that. Certainly, the spots are not driven by pure celebrity—Barbra Streisand wouldn't pack much of a punch with Bubba.