up "misplaced" en route, bootlegged versions show up a few weeks later on street corners. This risk wasn't one that the movie studio could take. Fortunately, Jain had a powerful credential ready. Safexpress had handled the release of the fifth Harry Potter book—every Potter book in every bookstore in India had been delivered there by Safexpress, an insanely complicated.delivery: All the books had to arrive in stores by 8 A.M. on the morning of the release. Not too early, or the bookstore owners might try to sell them early and the secret would be blown; and not too late, or the bookstore owners would be irate at lost sales. Also, the Potter books needed the same piracy protections as the stu - dio's films—there could be no leaks. And Jain had a second story. He knew from an earlier conversa- tion that the Bollywood studio executive had a brot her who had re- cently taken his high school board exams. After telling the Harry Potter story, Jain mentioned, "By the way, we also safely delivered the examination papers for your brother's boards and carried the return answer sheets." Safexpress handles the distribution of all the central examinations for high school and university admissions. Two months later, the deal was signed. Both of Jain's stories passed the Sinatra Test. Jain could have used statistics instead of stories —"98.84 percent of ou r deliveries arrive on time." Or he could have drawn on an external source of credibility, such as a testimonial from the CEO of a multinational company: "We've used Safexpress for all our deliveries in India and we've found them to be an excellent service provider." Both of these are good credibility-boosters. But there is something extraordinary about being the company that carries completed board exams and the latest Harry Potter book. Their power comes from their concreteness rather than from numbers or authority. These stories make you think, "If Safe- xpress can make it there, they can make it anywhere." CREDIBLE 153 Edible Fabrics For an example that unites all three of the "internal credibility" sources —details, statistics, and the Sinatra Test— we can turn to Bill McDonough, an environmentalist known for helping co mpanies im- prove both the environment and the bottom line. Most executives tend to be skeptical and suspicious when ap- proached by an environmentalist, even a "business-friendly" environ- mentalist like McDonough. To overcome such skepticism—to prove that there can be perfect consistency between business goals and envi- ronmental goals—McDonough tells a story that passes the Sinatra Test. The story goes as follows. In 1993, McDonough and a chemist, Michael Braungart, were hired by the Swiss textile manufacturer Rohner Textil, which produces the fabrics for Steelcase chairs. Their mission was one that most people in the textile industry considered impossible: Create a manufacturing process without using toxic chemicals. The textile industry routinely deals with hazardous chemicals. Most dye colors contain toxic elements. In fact, the trimmings from Rohner Textil's factory—the excess cloth not used on the c hairs—contained so many questionable chemicals that the Swiss governme nt classified them as hazardous waste. Furthermore, the trimmings couldn't be buried or burned in Switzerland—to comply with gove rnment regula- tions, they had to be exported—shipped to a country with laxer regula- tions, such as Spain. (Note the vivid, concrete detail.) McDonough said, "If your trimmings are declared hazardous waste but you can sell what's in the middle, you don't need to be a rocket scientist to know you're selling hazardous waste." To tackle this problem —eliminating toxic chemicals from the fur- niture-manufacturing process—McDonough needed to fi nd a willing partner in the chemical industry. He had to provide Rohner Textil with a source for clean chemicals that would fit the company's pro- 154 MADE TO STICK duction needs. So he and Braungart started approach ing executives in the chemical industry. They said, "We'd like to see all products in the future be as safe as pediatric pharmaceuticals. We'd like our ba- bies to be able to suck on them and get health and not sickness." They asked chemical factories to open their books and talk about how the chemicals were manufactured. McDonough told the com- panies, "Don't tell us 'it's proprietary and legal.' If we don't know what it is, we're not using it." Sixty chemical companies turned them down. Finally, the chairman of one firm, Ciba-Geigy, said okay. McDonough and Braungart studied 8,000 chemicals com monly used in the textile industry. They measured each chemical against a set of safety criteria. Of the chemicals they tested, 7,962 failed. They were left with 38 chemicals—but those 38 were "safe enough to eat," according to McDonough. (Note the concrete detail—" safe enough to eat"—plus a statistic that establishes a relatio nship—a tiny number of good chemicals out of a larger number of toxic chemicals.) Amazingly, using just those 38 chemicals, they were able to create a complete line of fabrics, containing every color but black. The fab- ric they chose was made from natural materials—wool and a plant fiber called ramie. When the production process went online, in- spectors from the Swiss government came to check the water flowing out of the plant to make sure chemical emissions were within legal limits. "At first, the inspectors thought their equipment had broken," McDonough says. The instruments were detecting nothing in the water. Then the inspectors tested the water flowing into the factory, which was Swiss drinking water, and found that the equipment was fine. McDonough says, "The fabrics during the produ ction process were further filtering the water." McDonough's new process wasn't just safer, it was cheaper. Man- ufacturing costs shrank 20 percent. The savings came, in part, from the reduced hassle and expense of dealing with toxic chemicals. Workers no longer had to wear protective clothing. And the scraps — instead of being shipped off to Spain for burial—we re converted into CREDIBLE 155 felt, which was sold to Swiss farmers and gardeners for crop insula- tion. This story is remarkable. Think about all the memorable ele- ments: The impossible mission. The elimination of all but 38 of 8,000 chemicals. The factory's water turned so clean that Swiss in- spectors thought their instruments were broken. The scraps were transformed from hazardous waste into crop insulation. The idea that this fabric was "safe enough to eat." And the happy business result- workers made safer and costs down 20 percent. If McDonough approaches any business, in any industr y, with a suggestion for a more environment-friendly process, this story will give him enormous credibility. It easily clears the bar set by the Sinatra Test. So far we've talked about creating credibility by drawing on exter- nal sources—authorities and antiauthorities. And we 've talked about creating credibility by drawing on sources inside the message itself— by using details and statistics and examples that pass the Sinatra Test. But there's one remaining source of credibility that we haven't dis- cussed. And it may be the most powerful source of all. Where's the Beef? One of the most brilliant television ad campaigns of all time was launched by Wendy's in 1984. The first commercial o pens on three elderly women standing together at a