"Prejudice has to be worked out young or it will be with you all your life. Sometimes I catch myself [discriminat- ing], stop myself, think back to the third grade, and remember what it was like to be put down." Jane Elliott put hooks into the idea of prejudice. It would have been easy for her to treat the idea of prejudice the way other class- room ideas are treated—as an important but abstract bit of knowl- edge, like the capital of Kansas or the definition of "truth." She could have treated prejudice as something to be learned, like the story of a World War II battle. Instead, Elliott turned prejudice into an experi- ence. Think of the "hooks" involved: The sight of a friend suddenly sneering at you. The feel of a collar around your neck. The despair at feeling inferior. The shock you get when you look at your own eyes in the mirror. This experience put so many hooks into the students' memories that, decades later, it could not be forgotten. The Path to Abstraction: The Blueprint and the Machine Jane Elliott's simulation of prejudice is compelling evidence of the power of concreteness. But if concreteness is so po werful, why do we slip so easily into abstraction? The reason is simple: because the difference between an expert and a novice is the ability to think abstractly. New jurors are struck by lawyers' personalities and factual details and courtroom rituals. Mean- while, judges weigh the current case against the abstract lessons of past cases and legal precedent. Biology students try to remember whether reptiles lay eggs or not. Biology teachers think in terms of the grand system of animal taxonomy. 114 MADE TO STICK Novices perceive concrete details as concrete details. Experts per- ceive concrete details as symbols of patterns and insights that they have learned through years of experience. And, because they are ca- pable of seeing a higher level of insight, they naturally want to talk on a higher level. They want to talk about chess strategies, not about bishops moving diagonally. And here is where our classic villain, the Curse of Knowledge, in- serts itself. A researcher named Beth Bechky studied a manufacturing firm that designed and built the complicated machinery used to pro- duce silicon chips. To build such machinery, the firm needed two sets of skills: engineers who could create brilliant designs, and skilled manufacturing people who could transform those desi gns into com- plex physical machines. If the firm was to succeed, these two sets of people had to be able to communicate smoothly. But, not surprisingly, they spoke different lan- guages. The engineers tended to think abstractly—th ey spent their day agonizing over drawings and blueprints. The manufacturing team, on the other hand, tended to think on a physical level—they spent their day building machines. What's most revealing for the Curse of Knowledge is what hap- pened when something went wrong on the manufacturin g floor. The manufacturing folks would sometimes run into a prob lem—something didn't fit or perhaps wasn't receiving enough power. The manufactur- ers would bring the problem to the engineers, and the engineers would immediately get to work. Specifically, they'd get to work fixing their drawings. For example, the manufacturing team might find a pa rt that didn't fit on the machine. When the team showed the part to the engineers, they wanted to pull out the blueprints and move things around on the drawing. In other words, the engineers instinctively wanted to jump to a higher level of abstraction. The engineers, Bechky found, made their drawings "increasingly CONCRETE 115 elaborate" in the hope that the enhanced drawings would clarify the process for the manufacturers. Over time, the drawings became more abstract, which further hampered communication. The engineers were behaving like American tourists who travel to foreign countries and try to make themselves understood by speaking English more slowly and loudly. They were suffering from the Curse of Knowledge. They had lost the ability to imagine what it was like to look at a technical drawing from the perspective of a nonexpert. The manufacturing people were thinking, Why don't you just come down to the factory floor and show me where th e part should go? And the engineering people were thinking, What do I need to do to make the drawings better? The miscommunication has a quality that is familiar, no doubt, to many readers who don't work on silicon chip-making machinery. So how do you fix it? Should both parties learn greater empathy for the other and, in essence, meet in the middle? Actually, no. The solution is for the engineers to change their behavior. Why? As Bechky notes, the physical machine was the most effective and relevant domain of communication. Everyone understands the machines fluently. There- fore problems should be solved at the level of the machine. It's easy to lose awareness that we're talking like an expert. We start to suffer from the Curse of Knowledge, like the tappers in the "tappers and listeners" game. It can feel unnatural to speak con- cretely about subject matter we've known intimately for years. But if we're willing to make the effort we'll see the rewards: Our audience will understand what we're saying and remember it. The moral of this story is not to "dumb things down." The manu- facturing people faced complex problems and they needed smart an- swers. Rather, the moral of the story is to find a "universal language," one that everyone speaks fluently. Inevitably, that universal language will be concrete. 1 16 MADE TO STICK Concrete Allows Coordination In the last chapter, we closed with two unexpected slogans that were used to motivate and coordinate large groups of smart people. The slo- gans were challenges to build a "pocketable radio" and to "put a man on the moon within the decade." Notice that these slogans are also pleas- ingly concrete. It is. doubtful that Japanese engineers were paralyzed with uncertainty about their mission, or that much time was spent at NASA quibbling about the meaning of "man," "moon," or "decade." Concreteness makes targets transparent. Even experts need trans- parency. Consider a software start-up whose goal is to build "the next great search engine." Within the start-up are two programmers with nearly identical knowledge, working in neighboring cubes. To one "the next great search engine" means completeness, ensuring that the search engine returns everything on the Web that might be rele- vant, no matter how obscure. To the other it means speed, ensuring pretty good results very fast. Their efforts will not be fully aligned until the goal is made concrete. When Boeing prepared to launch the design of the 72 7 passenger plane in the 1960s, its managers set a goal that was deliberately con- crete: The 727 must seat 131 passengers, fly nonstop from Miami to New York City, and land on Runway 4-22 at La Guardi a. (The 4-22 runway was chosen for its length —less than a mile, which was much too short for any of the existing passenger jets.) With a goal this con- crete, Boeing effectively coordinated the actions of thousands of ex- perts in various