messages don't break through the clutter to get people's attention. Furthermore, our messages are usually complex enough that we won't succeed if we can't keep people's attention. To understand the answers to these two questions, we have to un- derstand two essential emotions—surprise and intere st—that are commonly provoked by naturally sticky ideas. Surprise gets our attention. Some naturally sticky ideas pro - pose surprising "facts": The Great Wall of China is the only man-made structure visible from space! You use only 10 percent of your brain! You should drink eight glasses of water a day! Urban legends frequently contain surpr ising plot twists. Interest keeps our attention. There are classes of sticky ideas that maintain our interest over time. Conspiracy theories keep people ravenously collecting new information. Gossip keeps us coming back to our friends for developments. 66 MADE TO STICK Naturally sticky ideas are frequently unexpected. If we can make our ideas more unexpected, they will be stickier. But can you generate "unexpectedness"? Isn't "planned unexpectedness" an oxymoron? GETTING PEOPLE'S ATTENTION No One Ever Does The television commercial for the new Enclave minivan opens with the Enclave sitting in front of a park. A boy holding a football helmet climbs into the minivan, followed by his two younger sisters. "Intro- ducing the all-new Enclave," begins a woman's voice-over. Dad is be- hind the wheel and Mom is in the passenger seat. Cup holders are everywhere. Dad starts the car and pulls away from the curb. "It's a minivan to the max." The minivan cruises slowly through suburban streets. "With fea- tures like remote-controlled sliding rear doors, 150 cable channels, a full sky-view roof, temperature-controlled cup holders, and the six- point navigation system ... It's the minivan for families on the go." The Enclave pulls to a stop at an intersection. The camera zooms in on the boy, gazing out a side window that reflects giant, leafy trees. Dad pulls into the intersection. That's when it happens. A speeding car barrels into the intersection and broadsides the minivan. There is a terrifying collision, with metal buckling and an explosion of broken glass. The screen fades to black, and a message appears: " Didn't see that coming?" The question fades and is replaced by a statement: "No one ever does." With the sound of a stuck horn blaring in the background, a few final words flash across the screen: "Buckle up ... Always." There is no Enclave minivan. This ad was created bv the Ad UNEXPECTED 67 Council. (The Enclave spot was sponsored by the U.S. Department of Transportation.) The Ad Council, founded in 1942 , has launched many successful campaigns, from the World War II-er a "Loose Lips Sink Ships" to the more recent "Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk." The Enclave ad, like many other Council ads, capitalizes on the second characteristic of sticky ideas: Unexpectedness. The Enclave ad is unexpected because it violates our schema for car commercials. We know how car commercials are supposed to be- have. Pickups climb mountains of boulders. Sports cars zip along va- cant curvy roads. SUVs carry yuppies through forests to waterfalls. And minivans deliver kids to soccer practice. No on e dies, ever. The ad is unexpected in a second way: It violates our schema of real-life neighborhood trips. We take thousands of trips in our neigh- borhoods, and the vast majority of them end safely. The commercial reminds us that accidents are inherently unexpected —we ought to buckle up, just in case. Our schemas are like guessing machines. Schemas help us pre- dict what will happen and, consequently, how we sho uld make deci- sions. The Enclave asks, "Didn't see that coming?" No, we didn't. Our guessing machines failed, which caused us to be surprised. Emotions are elegantly tuned to help us deal with critical situa- tions. They prepare us for different ways of acting and thinking. We've all heard that anger prepares us to fight and fear prepares us to flee. The linkages between emotion and behavior can be more sub- tle, though. For instance, a secondary effect of being angry, which was recently discovered by researchers, is that we become more cer- tain of our judgments. When we're angry, we know we're right, as anyone who has been in a relationship can attest. So if emotions have biological purposes, then what is the biologi- cal purpose of surprise? Surprise jolts us to attention. Surprise is trig- gered when our schemas fail, and it prepares us to understand why the failure occurred. When our guessing machines fail, surprise grabs our attention so that we can repair them for the future. 68 MADE TO SI ll_l«. The Surprise Brow Surprise is associated with a facial expression that is consistent across cultures. In a book called Unmasking the Face, Paul Ekman and Wal- lace Friesen coined a term, "the surprise brow," to describe the dis- tinctive facial expression of surprise: "The eyebro ws appear curved and high. . . . The skin below the brow has been stretched by the lift- ing of the brow, and is more visible than usual." When our brows go up, it widens our eyes and gives us a broader field of vision —the surprise brow is our body's wa y of forcing us to see more. We may also do a double take to make sure that we saw what we thought we saw. By way of contrast, when we're angry our eyes narrow so that we can focus on a known problem. In addition to mak- ing our eyebrows rise, surprise causes our jaws to drop and our mouths to gape. We're struck momentarily speechless. Our bodies temporarily stop moving and our muscles go slack. It's as though our bodies want to ensure that we're not talking or moving when we ought to be taking in new information. So surprise acts as a kind of emergency override when we confront something unexpected and our guessing machines fail. Things come to a halt, ongoing activities are interrupted, our attention focuses in- voluntarily on the event that surprised us. When a minivan com- mercial ends in a bloodcurdling crash, we stop and wonder, What is going on? Unexpected ideas are more likely to stick because surprise makes us pay attention and think. That extra attention and thinking sears unexpected events into our memories. Surprise gets our attention. Sometimes the attention is fleeting, but in other cases surprise can lead to enduring attention. Surprise can prompt us to hunt for under- lying causes, to imagine other possibilities, to figure out how to avoid surprises in the future. Researchers who study conspiracy theories, for instance, have noted that many of them arise when people are grapp ling with unex- UNEXPECTED 69 pected events, such as when the young and attractive die suddenly. There are conspiracy theories about the sudden deaths of JFK, Mari- lyn Monroe, Elvis, and Kurt Cobain. There tends to be less conspira- torial interest in the sudden deaths of ninety-year-olds. Surprise makes us want to find an answer—to resolve the question of why we were surprised—and big surprises call for big answers. If we want to motivate people to pay attention, we sho uld