know the signals—penc ils are put away, notebooks folded, backpacks zipped up." This time, though, the class 82 MADE TO STICK was silent. "After the bell rang, no one moved. In fact, when I tried to end the lecture without revealing the mystery, I was pelted with protests." He said he felt as if he'd discovered dynamite. Cialdini believes that a major benefit of teaching using mysteries is that "the process of resolving mysteries is remarkably similar to the process of science." So, by using mysteries, teachers don't just heighten students' interest in the day's material; they train them to think like scientists. Science doesn't have a monopoly on mysteries. Mysteries exist wherever there are questions without obvious answers. Why is it so hard to get pandas at the zoo to breed? Why don't customers like our new product? What's the best way to teach kids about fractions? Notice what is happening here: We have now moved to a higher level of unexpectedness. In the Nordstrom example, the Nordie sto- ries had a punchy immediacy: Nordies warm up customers' cars! When you hear this, your past schema of customer service is called up, contradicted, and refined, all in a short period of time. Mysteries act differently. Mystery is created not from an unexpected moment but from an unexpected journey. We know where we're headed—we want to solve the mystery—but we're not sure how we 'll get there. A schema violation is a onetime transaction. Boom, something has changed. If we were told that the rings of Saturn were made of dryer lint, a schema would be violated. We could ca ll it "first-level" unexpectedness. But the actual "rings of Saturn mystery" is more ex- tended and subtle. We are told that scientists do not know what Sat- urn's rings are made of, and we're asked to follow on a journey whose ending is unpredictable. That's second-level unexpectedness. In this way, we jump from fleeting surprise to enduring interest. Curiosity in Hollywood Screenplays Early in the movie Trading Places, Billy Ray Valentine (played by Eddie Murphy), an apparently legless beggar, is using his arms to UNEXPECTED 83 push himself around on a skateboardish contraption in a public park. He begs for money from passersby and harasses an attractive woman for a date. A couple of cops approach. As they jerk him up, his legs — perfectly normal legs —are exposed. Valentine is a con artist. Later in the movie, the Duke brothers—two elderly b usiness- men—intervene to get Valentine out of jail, persuad ing the cops to release him into their custody. A couple of scenes later, Valentine ap- pears, dressed in a three-piece suit, in a wood-paneled office. The Duke brothers have turned him into a commodities trader. Robert McKee, the screenwriting guru, uses this example to illus- trate the concept of a "Turning Point." McKee knows something about how to hold an audience's attention. His screenwriting seminars play to packed auditoriums of aspiring screenwriters, who pay five hundred dollars a head to listen to his thoughts. The Village Voice described his course as "damned near indispensable not only for writers, but also for actors, directors, reviewers, and garden-variety cinephiles." His stu- dents have written, directed, or produced television shows such as E.R., Hill Street Blues, and The X-Files, and movies ranging from The Color Purple to Forrest Gump and Friday the 13th. McKee says, "Curiosity is the intellectual need to answer ques- tions and close open patterns. Story plays to this universal desire by doing the opposite, posing questions and opening situations." In Trading Places, the Turning Point with Billy Ray and the Duke broth- ers makes the audience curious. How will Valentine, the street-smart con man, fare as a trader? In McKee's view, a great script is designed so that every scene is a Turning Point. "Each Turning Point hooks curiosity. The audience wonders, What will happen next? and How will it turn out? The an- swer to this will not arrive until the Climax of the last act, and so the audience, held by curiosity, stays put." McKee notes that the How will it turn out? question is powerful enough to keep us watching even when we know better. "Think of all the bad films you've sat through just to get the answer to that nagging question." 84 MADE TO STICK What will happen next? How will it turn out? We want to answer these questions, and that desire keeps us interested. It keeps us watch- ing bad movies—but it might also keep us reading lo ng scientific arti- cles. McKee and Cialdini have come up with similar solutions to very different problems. Yet there are other domains where people can be rab idly inter- ested in something that lacks this sense of mystery. Kids who obses- sively memorize Pokemon characters and their traits are motivated by something, but it isn't What will happen next? It isn't a sense of an un- folding mystery that keeps car buffs plowing through every issue of Car & Driver. But, as we'll discover, Pokemon fans and car buffs have something in common with movie viewers and students in an in- triguing lecture. Psychologists have studied this question— What makes people inter- ested?—for decades. The holy grail of research on interest is to find a way to describe situational interest. In other words, what features of a situation spark and elevate interest? What makes situations interesting? As it turns out, Cialdini and McKee were pretty close to the mark. The "Gap Theory" of Curiosity In 1994, George Loewenstein, a behavioral economist at Carnegie Mellon University, provided the most comprehensive account of sit- uational interest. It is surprisingly simple. Curiosity, he says, happens when we feel a gap in our knowledge. Loewenstein argues that gaps cause pain. When we want to know something but don't, it's like having an itch that we need to scratch. To take away the pain, we need to fill the knowledge gap. We sit pa- tiently through bad movies, even though they may be painful to watch, because it's too painful not to know how they end. This "gap theory" of interest seems to explain why some domains create fanatical interest: They naturally create knowledge gaps. Take UNEXPECTED 85 movies, for instance. McKee's language is similar to Loewenstein's: McKee says, "Story works by posing questions and opening situa- tions." Movies cause us to ask, What will happen? Mystery novels cause us to ask, Who did it? Sports contests cause us to ask, Who will win? Crossword puzzles cause us to ask, What is a six-letter word for "psychiatrist"? Pokemon cards cause kids to wonder, Which charac- ters am I missing? One important implication of the gap theory is that we need to open gaps before we close them. Our tendency is to tell people the facts. First, though, they must realize that they need these facts. The trick to convincing people that they need our message, according to Loewenstein, is to first highlight some specific knowledge that they're missing. We can pose a question or puzzle that confronts people with a gap in their knowledge. We can point out that someone else knows something they don't. We