of one performer. There is no other instru- ment that has the same breadth and range. And when you put two of these magnificent instruments in the same room, and the performers can respond to ea ch other and build on each other, it's like having the sound of the or- chestra but the intimacy of chamber music. At that point, surprise brows went up around the room and there was an audible murmur of approval. This phrase —"th e sound of the orchestra but the intimacy of chamber music"—was pr ofound and evocative. Suddenly the people in the room understood, for the first time, why the Murray Dranoff team was, and should b e, committed to the duo piano. Why did it take ten minutes for the Murray Dranoff group to EMOTIONAL 201 come up with a message that made other people care? You'd think that a group devoted to the duo piano would be in the best position of anyone on earth to explain the value of the music. The reality is that they did in fact know better than anyone on earth why the duo piano was worth preserving. But the Cur se of Knowledge prevented them from expressing it well. The mission to "preserve duo piano music" was effective and meaningful inside Murray Dranoff, but outside the organization it was opaque. Several attendees later com- mented that they had sympathized with the question "Why would the world be a less rich place if duo piano music disappeared completely?" What's so special about the duo piano? Who cares? If you come to work every day for years, focused on duo piano is- sues, it's easy to forget that a lot of the world has never heard of the duo piano. It's easy to forget that you're the tapper and the world is the listener. The duo piano group was rescued from the Curse of Knowledge by a roomful of people relentlessly asking them, "Why?" By asking "Why?" three times, the duo piano group moved from talk- ing about what they were doing to why they were doing it. They moved from a set of associations that had no power (except to some- one who already knew duo piano music) to a set of deeper, more con- crete associations that connected emotionally with outsiders. This tactic of the "Three Whys" can be useful in bypassing the Curse of Knowledge. (Toyota actually has a "Five Wh ys" process for getting to the bottom of problems on its production line. Feel free to use as many "Whys" as you like.) Asking "Why?" help s to remind us of the core values, the core principles, that underlie our ideas. A few years back, a group of hospital administrators asked the de- sign firm IDEO to help improve the hospital's workflow. The team at IDEO knew that they would probably face a lot of internal re- sistance to their recommendations. The first step in motivating the 202 MADE TO STICK hospital staff to change was to get them to realize that there was a problem and get them to care about it. IDEO created a video, shot from the perspective of a patient who goes to the emergency room for a leg fracture. In the video, we see what the patient sees. We are the patient. We come in through the door to the ER—we hunt around for check-in instructi ons and inter- act with the admissions people, who are speaking in a foreign medical tongue. Eventually, we are laid on a gurney and wheeled through the hospital. We see long stretches of the hospital ceiling. We hear dis- embodied voices, because we can't see the person ad dressing us. Every now and then, someone pokes his or her head i nto our field of view. Frequently, there are long pauses where we just sit idle, staring at the ceiling, unsure what's coming next. Jane Fulton Suri, a psychologist at IDEO, said that when the hos- pital staff was shown the video it had an immediate impact. "The first reaction was always something like 'Oh, I never realized . . .'" Suri says she likes the word realized. Before the hospital workers saw the video, the problem wasn't quite real. Afterward, she said, "There's an immediate motivation to fix things. It's no longer just some problem on a problem list." IDEO also created role-playing exercises, putting the staffers in the patients' shoes. The exercises included such tasks as, "Imagine that you are French and you are trying to locate your father in the hospital, but you don't speak any English." IDEO has become known for this type of simulation —simulations that drive employees to em- pathize with their customers. Time seems to erode e mpathy in some contexts, and IDEO's simulations manage to restore the natural em- pathy that we have for others. "The world of business tends to em- phasize the pattern over the particular," Suri said. "The intellectual aspects of the pattern prevent people from caring." EMOTIONAL 203 This realization—that empathy emerges from the part icular rather than the pattern —brings us back full circle to the Mother Teresa quote at the beginning of the chapter: "If I look a t the mass, I will never act. If I look at the one, I will." How can we make people care about our ideas? We get them to take off their Analytical Hats. We create empathy for specific individ- uals. We show how our ideas are associated with thi ngs that people al- ready care about. We appeal to their self-interest, but we also appeal to their identities—not only to the people they are right now but also to the people they would like to be And, while we should always think about "what's in it" for our au- dience, we should remember to stay clear of Maslow's Basement. "What's in it" for our audience might be aesthetic motivation or the desire for transcendence rather than a $250 bonus. Floyd Lee said, "As I see it, I am not just in charge of food service; I am in charge of morale." Who wouldn't want a leader like Floyd Lee? STORIES The nurse was working in the neonatal intensive-care unit, where newborns with serious health problems are treated and monitored. She'd been watching one baby in particular for sev- eral hours, and she didn't like what she was seeing. His color, a key indicator of potential problems, had been fluctuating—wavering be- tween a healthy shade of pink and a duller, more troublesome hue. Suddenly, within a matter of seconds, the baby turned a deep blue-black. The nurse's stomach fell. Others in the ICU yelled for an X-ray technician and a doctor. The gathering medical team was operating on the assumption that the baby's lung had collapsed, a common proble m for babies on ventilators. The team prepared for the typical response to a collapsed lung, which involves piercing the chest and inserting a tube to suck the air from around the collapsed lung, allowing it to reinflate. But the nurse thought it was a heart problem. As soon as she saw the baby's color—that awful blue-black—she suspected a pneumoperi- cardium, a