something to enjoy themselves —to listen to good music, watch television, or eat a good meal; instead, they wanted to go out and accomplish something. Thus these stories drive productive action, not passive self-involvement. 227 In response, Jesus told a story: The Good Samaritan story is from the New International Version of the Bible, Luke 10:25-37. 229 Ingersoll-Rand: The story of the Grinder Team is told in Chapter 6 of Tom Peters, Liberation Management (New York: Knopf, 1992). 231 Stories at the World Bank: This section is based on two excellent books by Stephen Denning. His first book, about the role of storytelling in organiza- tions, is The Springboard: How Storytelling Ignites Action in Knowledge-Era Organizations (Boston: Butterworth-Heinemann, 2001). There are do zens of books available that talk about the role of storytelling in organizations and or- ganizational culture; The Springboard is the best book on the subject, and among the best business books of any kind. A follow-up book that describes a number of story plots other than springboard storie s is The Leader's Guide to Storytelling: Mastering the Art and Discipline of Business Narrative (San Francisco: Josey-Bass, 2005), The "corporate Siberi a" quote is from a talk by Stephen Denning at IDEO, June 9, 2005. 233 "This is a very strange conversation": Denning, The Leader's Guide, 63. 276 NOTES 233 "Why not spell out the message": Denning, The Springboard, 80. 234 "little voice inside the head": Denning, The Leader's Guide, 62. 235 Klein tells another story: The story of the failed conference summaries is from Klein, Sources of Power, 195—96. Epilogue: What Sticks 238 As recounted by Ralph Keyes: Ralph Keyes, Nice Guys Finish Seventh: False Phrases, Spurious Sayings and Familiar Misquotations (New York: Harper- Collins, 1992). This book is filled with interesting examples of how proverbs evolve and change as they spread in society. Several people gave feedback on our initial proposa l, which needed a lot of work. We thank the following people for helping us create a document that was compelling enough to pass the first essential test: Doug Crandall, James Dailey, Ben Ellis, John Lin, T om Prehn, Chloe Sladden, and Craig Yee. When we finished the first half of the book, we were very excited and anxious to get some feedback. So we sent it to a bunch of friends and colleagues, who humored us and sent along written feedback. They also saved you, the reader, from lots of unconvincing and unin- teresting anecdotes, like the one about the Charm Bracelet Punch- line, so you owe them some gratitude as well. Here is the roll call of good people: Daryl Anderson, E. Joseph Arias, Deena Bahri, Amy Bryant, Mark and Chelsea Dinsmore, Julie Balovich, Danny Fitel- son, Alfred Edmond, Michael Erisman, Chris Ertel, E rika Faust, Craig Fox, Emmet Gaffney, Lisa Gansky, Liz Gerber, Julio Gonza- lez, Eric Guenther, Steven Guerrero, Susanna Hamner and Byron Penstock, Tod and Susan Hays, Fred and Brenda Heath , Ian Hill, Joe Lassiter, Alex Kazaks, Brian Kelly, Paul Marshall, George Miller, Shara Morales, Michael Morris, Derek Newton, Justin Osofsky, Jeff Pfeffer, Bill Sahlman, Andrew and Katie Solomon, Melissa Studzin- 278 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ski, Mark Schlueter, Paul Schumann, Steven Slon, Am y and Walter Surdacki, Bob Sutton, Mike Sweeney, Anthony Trendl, Ed Uye- shima, Steve and Trae Vassallo, Rachel Ward, Keith Yamashita. Thank you all—you gave us the feedback we needed wh en it was most useful. Here is a hodgepodge of thank yous for people who helped us in distinctive ways. Thanlc you to Noah Weiss, who spent hours comb- ing obsure sources for interesting examples in the early stages, and to Maggie Cong-Huyen, who picked up where he left off. Special thanks to Jeff Saunders for pointing out Commander's Intent. Thanks to Chip's students in several years of OB 368 classes, who helped re- fine and test this framework. Thanks to Chip's collaborators who helped work out many of these ideas: Adrian Bangerter, Chris Bell, Jonah Berger, Sanford Devoe, Nate Fast, Alison Fragale, Emily Sternberg, Scott Wiltermuth. Thanks to the followin g people who read the book and helped collect examples for the international edi- tions: Eugine Chong, Hide Doi, Atsuko Jenks, Hyun K im, Motoki Korenaga, Andreas Kornstaedt, and Noriko Masuda. Now for the paragraph of people whose work inspired us. You didn't have anything to do with this book, and yet you had a lot to do with this book. A fan letter to: Edward Tufte, Don Norman, Malcolm Gladwell, James Carville, Stephen Denning, Robert McKee, Andy Goodman, Jim Thompson, Steven Tomlinson, Edward Bur ger, George Wolfe, David Placek, Keith Yamashita, Jacob Goldenberg, George Loewenstein, Robert Cialdini, Mark Schaller, David Rubin, Jan Brunvand, and many others that we're going to kick ourselves for not including by press time. To our agents Don Lamm and Christy Fletcher, we are deeply grateful to you for making this experience possible. And thank you to Mark Fortier, for spreading the word about the book . It is obligatory to thank your publisher. According to what we've heard from other authors, you usually have to say thanks through grit- ted teeth. This is our first book, and in the process of getting it to mar- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 279 ket, we were supposed to accumulate a lot of publishing horror sto- ries. We were supposed to feel underappreciated and undersup- ported. Random House has been an utter failure on this front. The people at Random House have been such a joy to work with, so un- expectedly and unnecessarily nice, that it's hard to know where to begin. Thanks to: Debbie Aroff, Avideh Bashirrad, Rachel Bernstein, Nicole Bond, Evan Camfield, Gina Centrello, Kristin Fassler, Jen- nifer Hershey, Stephanie Hunhvork, Jennifer Huwer, London King, Sally Marvin, Dan Menaker, Jack Perry, Tom Perry, Kelle Ruden, Robbin Schiff, and Carol Schneider. And Sanyu Dillon, my good- ness, how can we adequately express our appreciatio n for all that you've done? Unbelievable. And a huge, engraved, foil-embossed, calligraphied thank you to our amazing editor, Ben Loehnen. Our parents will read this book once, if we're lucky. (An aside: Our dad has a Quantity Theory of Lit- erature, which says that it's not worth reading a book with fewer than four hundred pages. We're relying purely on connections to get a read out of him.) Meanwhile, Ben has read this thing probably a dozen times without ever breaking down, at least in front of us. Ben, you are endlessly patient, thoughtful, insightful, and supportive. Okay, this is starting to sound like we're signing your yearbook. (Stay cool!) But, really, we know we gave you a lot to stomach at times. Like our duct tape campaign. Now to our family, who put up with us. We owe you this heartfelt thank you, which really has nothing to do with this book and every- thing to do with your support of us in all that we do. This section just gives us a great opportunity to put it in black and white. Thanks, Mom and Dad, for giving us co-authors. Thanks, Susa n. Thanks, Emory. Thanks, sister Susan. Thanks, Tod, Hunter, a nd Darby. We hope you enjoy the book. We had fun writing it. abstraction disadvantages of, 99-100,103-4,