makes some ideas stick a nd others dis- appear. So, while our focus will veer away from The Tipping Point's turf, we want to pay tribute to Gladwell for the word "stickiness." It stuck. Who Spoiled Halloween? In the 1960s and 1970s, the tradition of Halloween trick-or-treating came under attack. Rumors circulated about Halloween sadists who put razor blades in apples and booby-trapped pieces of candy. The ru- mors affected the Halloween tradition nationwide. P arents carefully examined their children's candy bags. Schools opened their doors at night so that kids could trick-or-treat in a safe environment. Hospitals volunteered to X-ray candy bags. 14 MADE TO STICK In 1985, an ABC News poll showed that 60 percent of parents worried that their children might be victimized. To this day, many parents warn their children not to eat any snacks that aren't prepack- aged. This is a sad story: a family holiday sullied by bad people who, inexplicably, wish to harm children. But in 1985 the story took a strange twist. Researchers discovered something shocking about the candy-tampering epidemic: It was a myth. The researchers, sociologists Joel Best and Gerald Horiuchi, stud- ied every reported Halloween incident since 1958. T hey found no in- stances where strangers caused children life-threatening harm on Halloween by tampering with their candy. Two children did die on Halloween, but their deaths weren't caused by strangers. A five-year-old boy found his uncle's heroin stash and overdosed. His relatives initially tried to cover their tracks by sprinkling heroin on his candy. In another case, a father, hoping to collect on an insurance settlement, caused the death of his own son by contaminating his candy with cyanide. In other words, the best social science evidence reveals that taking candy from strangers is perfectly okay. It's your family you should worry about. The candy-tampering story has changed the behavior of millions of parents over the past thirty years. Sadly, it has made neighbors sus- picious of neighbors. It has even changed the laws of this country: Both California and New Jersey passed laws that carry special penal- ties for candy-tamperers. Why was this idea so successful? Six Principles of Sticky Ideas The Halloween-candy story is, in a sense, the evil twin of the CSPI story. Both stories highlighted an unexpected danger in a common ac- tivity: eating Halloween candy and eating movie pop corn. Both sto- INTRODUCTION 15 ries called for simple action: examining your child's candy and avoid- ing movie popcorn. Both made use of vivid, concrete images that cling easily to memory: an apple with a buried razor blade and a table full of greasy foods. And both stories tapped into emotion: fear in the case of Halloween candy and disgust in the case of movie popcorn. The Kidney Heist, too, shares many of these traits. A highly unex- pected outcome: a guy who stops for a drink and ends up one kidney short of a pair. A lot of concrete details: the ice-filled bathtub, the weird tube protruding from the lower back. Emotion: fear, disgust, suspicion. We began to see the same themes, the same attributes, reflected in a wide range of successful ideas. What we found based on Chip's research —and by reviewing the research of dozens o f folklorists, psy- chologists, educational researchers, political scientists, and proverb- hunters—was that sticky ideas shared certain key tr aits. There is no "formula" for a sticky idea — we don't want to over state the case. But sticky ideas do draw from a common set of traits, which make them more likely to succeed. It's like discussing the attributes of a great basketball player. You can be pretty sure that any great player has some subset of traits like height, speed, agility, power, and court sense. But you don't need all of these traits in order to be great: Some great guards are five feet ten and scrawny. And having all the traits doesn't guarantee greatness: No doubt there are plenty of slow, clumsy seven-footers. It's clear, though, that if you're on the neighborhood court, choosing your team from among strangers, you should probably take a gamble on the seven-foot dude. Ideas work in much the same way. One skill we can learn is the ability to spot ideas that have "natural talent," like the seven-foot stranger. Later in the book, we'll discuss Subway's advertising cam- paign that focused on Jared, an obese college student who lost more than 200 pounds by eating Subway sandwiches every day. The cam- 16 MADE TO STICK paign was a huge success. And it wasn't created by a Madison Avenue advertising agency; it started with a single store owner who had the good sense to spot an amazing story. But here's where our basketball analogy breaks down: In the world of ideas, we can genetically engineer our players. We can create ideas with an eye to maximizing their stickiness. As we pored over hundreds of sticky ideas, we saw, over and over, the same six principles at work. PRINCIPLE 1: SIMPLICITY How do we find the essential core of our ideas? A s uccessful defense lawyer says, "If you argue ten points, even if each is a good point, when they get back to the jury room they won't remember any." To strip an idea down to its core, we must be masters of exclusion. We must relentlessly prioritize. Saying something short is not the mis- sion—sound bites are not the ideal. Proverbs are th e ideal. We must create ideas that are both simple and profound. The Golden Rule is the ultimate model of simplicity: a one-sentence statement so pro- found that an individual could spend a lifetime learning to follow it. PRINCIPLE 2: UNEXPECTEDNESS How do we get our audience to pay attention to our ideas, and how do we maintain their interest when we need time to get the ideas across? We need to violate people's expectations. We need to be counterintu- itive. A bag of popcorn is as unhealthy as a whole day's worth of fatty foods! We can use surprise —an emotion whose function is t o in- crease alertness and cause focus —to grab people's attention. But sur- prise doesn't last. For our idea to endure, we must generate interest and curiosity. How do you keep students engaged during the forty- eighth history class of the year? We can engage peo ple's curiosity over a long period of time by systematically "opening gaps" in their knowl- edge—and then filling those gaps. INTRODUCTION 17 PRINCIPLE 3: CONCRETENESS How do we make our ideas clear? We must explain our ideas in terms of human actions, in terms of sensory information. This is where so much business communication goes awry. Mis sion state- ments, synergies, strategies, visions—they are ofte n ambiguous to the point of being meaningless. Naturally sticky ideas are full of con- crete images —ice-filled bathtubs, apples with razo rs—because our brains are wired to remember concrete data. In prov erbs, abstract truths are often encoded in concrete language: "A bird in hand is worth two in the bush." Speaking concretely is the only way to en- sure that our idea will mean the same thing