beer can and says, "I got a message for him too..." An off-camera voice asks, "What's that?" White crushes the can with his fist and says threateningly, "Well, I kinda need to see him to deliver it." Too-Tall Jones adds, "Don't mess with Texas." This commercial is a far cry from cute owls and weepy Native Amer- icans. Another ad features Houston Astros pitcher Mike Scott, famous for his split-fingered fastball. Scott says that throwing stuff away is "the Texas thing to do." He demonstrates his "split-fingered trashball," hurling some litter into a roadside can, which explodes with a pillar of fire. Subtle stuff. The campaign featured athletes and musicians, most of whom probably weren't household names outside Texas but were all well- known to Texans as Texans: Houston Oiler quarterback Warren Moon, boxer George Foreman, blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan, and country artist Jerry Jeff Walker. Willie Nelson contributed an ad with the line "Mamas, tell all your babies, 'Don't mess with Texas.'" But isn't this just a garden-variety celebrity endorsement? No, it's 198 MADE TO STICK more subtle than that. Certainly, the spots are not driven by pure celebrity—Barbra Streisand wouldn't pack much of a punch with Bubba. And even macho celebrities wouldn't have wor ked the same way. Schwarzenegger is macho but does nothing to evoke Texanness. What if the campaign used the same celebrities but adopted a more conventional PSA-type approach? "I'm pro boxer George Fore- man. It's uncool to litter." That, too, would be unlikely to work: Fore- man would be stepping into the authority role that Bubba hates. The message of the campaign was Texans don't litter. Notice that the celebrities are valuable only insofar as they can quickly establish the schema of "Texas" —or, more specifically, of "i deal, masculine Texans." Even people who dislike Willie Nelson's music can appreci- ate his quality of Texan-ness. The campaign was an instant success. Within a few months of the launch, an astonishing 73 percent of Texans polled could recall the message and identify it as an antilitter message. Within one year, lit- ter had declined 29 percent. The Department of Transportation originally planned to accom- pany the "Don't Mess with Texas" campaign with a separate $ 1 mil- lion program to enforce litter laws more vigorously. This was a fear tactic: If you litter, you're more likely to get caught and prosecuted. But the effect of "Don't Mess with Texas" was so strong and immedi- ate that the enforcement program was abandoned. By offering Bubba a compelling message about identity, the campaign made appeals to fear unnecessary. During the first five years of the campaign, visible roadside litter in Texas decreased 72 percent and the number of cans along Texas roads dropped 81 percent. In 1988, Syrek found that Texas had less than half the trash he found along the roads of other states that had run antilitter programs for comparable periods. "Don't Mess with Texas," as a phrase, is a great slogan. But we shouldn't confuse the slogan with the idea. The ide a was that Syrek EMOTIONAL 199 could make Bubba care about litter by showing him that real Texans didn't litter. The idea was that Bubba would respond to an identity appeal better than he would to a rational self-interest appeal. Even if a second-rate copywriter had been hired, and the slo gan had been "Don't Disrespect Texas," the campaign would still have decreased cans on Texas highways. The Music of Duo Piano So far we've looked at three strategies for making people care: using associations (or avoiding associations, as the case may be), appealing to self-interest, and appealing to identity. All three strategies can be effective, but we've got to watch out for our old nemesis, the Curse of Knowledge, which can interfere with our ability to implement them. In 2002, Chip helped a group of professors lead a seminar for non- profit arts leaders in Miami and Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. One of the ex- ercises was intended to help the leaders articulate and refine the core mission of their organization. The questions put to the attendees were difficult ones: Why does your organization exist? Can other organiza- tions do what you do—and if so, what is it you do t hat is unique? One question asked participants to define the purpose of their or- ganization in a way that would motivate other peopl e to care about it. Volunteers must care enough to contribute their time, donors must care enough to donate their money, and employees must care enough to stick by the organization (even when they get lucrative job offers from other, for-profit organizations). One of the organizations attending the seminar was the Murray Dranoff Duo Piano Foundation. When it was their turn, Chip asked the representatives to read their emotion-evoking purpose statement: Duo Piano group: We exist to protect, preserve, and promote the music of duo piano. 200 MADE TO STICK Chip: Why is it important to protect the music of duo piano? Duo Piano group: Well, not much duo piano music is being performed anymore. We want to keep it from dying out. One attendee admitted later that when he first heard the phrase "duo piano" he immediately thought of the "dueling pianos" that you find in touristy bars, with people drunkenly singing along to "Piano Man." Some people in the room thought that perhaps the death of duo piano music should not be prevented but hastened. The conversation went around in circles for a few minutes with- out much progress in making the people in the room care about duo piano as an art form. Finally, one of the other participants chimed in: I don't want to be rude, but why would the world be a less rich place if duo piano music disappeared completely? Duo Piano group: (Clearly taken aback). Wow... The piano is this magnificent instrument. It was created to put the entire range and tonal quality of the whole orchestra under the control of one performer. There is no other instru- ment that has the same breadth and range. And when you put two of these magnificent instruments in the same room, and the performers can respond to ea ch other and build on each other, it's like having the sound of the or- chestra but the intimacy of chamber music. At that point, surprise brows went up around the room and there was an audible murmur of approval. This phrase —"th e sound of the orchestra but the intimacy of chamber music"—was pr ofound and evocative. Suddenly the people in the room understood, for the first time, why the Murray Dranoff team was, and should b e, committed to the duo piano. Why did it take ten minutes for the Murray Dranoff group to EMOTIONAL 201 come up with a message that made other people care? You'd think that a group devoted to the duo piano would be in the best position of anyone on earth to explain the value of the music. The reality is that they did in fact know better than anyone on earth why the duo piano was worth preserving. But the Cur se of Knowledge prevented them