an EO53 error. [This is a misleading error code that refers to an area of the ma- chine that is unrelated to the real problem.] That's exactly what I had down there, at the end of the hall, and Weber and I ran for four hours trying to chase that thing. All it was was a bad dicorotron. We finally got it running long enough so that we got an EO53 with an F066 and the minute we checked the dicorotrons we had one that was totally dead. . . . [Orr reports that there was a long pause for cribba ge.] Yeah that was a fun one. These cribbage-playing guys in the lunchroom are si mply talking shop, as we all do. A misleading EO53 error may not constitute drama in your world, but no doubt we all have our e quivalents. Why do people talk shop? Part of the reason is simply Humanity 101 —we want to talk to other people about the thin gs that we have in common. Xerox repairmen work with photocopiers, so they talk about them. But that's not the only factor at play here. For example, the storyteller above could have shared the general arc of the story without the details: "I had a real bear of a problem today—it took me four hours to get to the bottom of it. I'm glad that one's over." Or he 208 MADE TO STICK could have leapt straight to the punch line: "After hours of hassle, I traced the problem back to a measly burned-out dicorotron. How was your morning?" Instead, he tells a story that's much more interesting to his lunch partners. It has built-in drama—a misleading code l eads two men on a wild goose chase until they uncover, through lots of work and thought, that the problem is simpler than they initially thought. Why is this story format more interesting? Because it allows his lunch part- ners to play along. He's giving them enough information so that they can mentally test out how they would have handled t he situation. The people in the room who weren't aware of the misleading EO53 code have now had their "EO53 schema" fixed. Before , there was only one way to respond to an EO53 code. Now, repairmen know to be aware of the "misleading EO53" scenario. In other words, this story is part entertainment and part instruc- tion. Shop talk conveys important clues about how to respond to the world. It teaches nurses not to have blind faith in heart monitors. It teaches copy repairmen to beware of the misleading EO53 code. But the stories above aren't simply transferring nuggets of infor- mation. The Xerox story is not functionally equivalent to an e-mail sent around the company that contains the line "Watch out for false EO53 codes related to burned-out dicorotrons." Something more pro- found is happening here. It will take a bit of unpacking to reveal the additional value that these stories bring. The Un-passive Audience Stories are strongly associated with entertainment— movies and books and TV shows and magazines. When children say "Tell me a story," they're begging for entertainment, not instruction. Being the "audience" for a story seems like a passive role — audiences who get their stories from television are called "couch po- STORIES 209 tatoes," after all. But "passive" may be overstating the case. When we read books, we have the sensation of being drawn into the author's world. When friends tell us stories, we instinctively empathize. When we watch movies, we identify with the protagonists. But what if stories involve us in less intuitive, more dramatic ways? One team of researchers has produced some exciting evidence suggesting that the line between a story's "audience" and a story's "protagonist" may be a bit blurry. Three psychologists interested in how people come to understand stories created a few for their study participants to read on a com- puter. They divided the participants into two groups. The first group read a story in which a critical object was associated with the main character in the story—for instance, "John put on his sweatshirt be- fore he went jogging." The second group read a stor y in which the same critical object was separated from the main character: "John took off his sweatshirt before jogging." Two sentences later, the story threw in a reference to the sweat- shirt, and the computer was able to track how long it took people to read that sentence. Something strange happened: The people who thought John had taken off his sweatshirt before the jog took more time to read the sentence than the people who thought John had it on. This result is subtle but fascinating. It implies that we create a kind of geographic simulation of the stories we hear. It's one thing to say "Reading stories makes us see pictures in our head." We'd all find that statement intuitive. It's quite another thing to say that when John left his sweatshirt behind, he left it back at the house in a more re- mote place in our heads. For that to be true, we cannot simply visual- ize the story on a movie screen in our heads; we must somehow simulate it, complete with some analogue (however loose) to the spa- tial relationships described in the story. These studies suggest that 210 MADE TO STICK there's no such thing as a passive audience. When we hear a story, our minds move from room to room. When we hear a story, we simulate it. But what good is simulation? A group of UCLA students were asked to think about a current problem in their lives, one that was "stressing them out" but was potentially solvable in the future, such as a problem with schoolwork or with a relationship. The students were told that the goal of the experiment was to help them deal with the problem effectively, and they got some brief in- structions on problem-solving: "It is important to think about the problem, learn more about it, think about what you can do, take steps to deal with it. ... Resolving it could reduce your stress, make you feel pleased with how you dealt with it, and help you grow from the experience." After receiving these instructions, this "control group" was sent home and asked to report back to the lab a week later. A second group of students, the "event-simulation" group, were kept in the lab. They were asked to mentally simulate how the prob- lem had unfolded: We would like you to visualize how this problem arose. Visualize the beginning of the problem, going over in detail the first inci- dent. . . . Go over the incidents as they occurred step by step. Vi- sualize the actions you took. Remember what you said, what you did. Visualize the environment, who was around, where you were. The event-simulation participants had to retrace, step by step, the events that led to their problem. Presumably, reviewing the chain of causation might help the students think about how to fix the prob- lem, like programmers engaged in systematic debuggi ng. STORIES 211 A third group, the