gift- wrapping clerks. Nordstrom's stories are a classic example of the po wer of unex- UNEXPECTED 75 pectedness. There's no danger that the stories will feel gimmicky, be- cause the surprise is followed by insight—the stori es tell us what it means to be a good Nordstrom employee. It's uncommo n sense in the sense of a core message. Journalism 101 Nora Ephron is a screenwriter whose scripts for Silkwood, When Harry Met Sally, and Sleepless in Seattle have all been nominated for Academy Awards. Ephron started her career as a jour nalist for the New York Post and Esquire. She became a journalist because of her high school journalism teacher. Ephron still remembers the first day of her journalism class. Al- though the students had no journalism experience, they walked into their first class with a sense of what a journalist does: A journalists gets the facts and reports them. To get the facts, you track down the five Ws—who, what, where, when, and why. As students sat in front of their manual typewriters, Ephron's teacher announced the first assignment. They would write the lead of a newspaper story. The teacher reeled off the facts: "Kenneth L. Pe- ters, the principal of Beverly Hills High School, announced today that the entire high school faculty will travel to Sacramento next Thursday for a colloquium in new teaching methods. Among the speakers will be anthropologist Margaret Mead, college president Dr. Robert May- nard Hutchins, and California governor Edmund 'Pat' Brown." The budding journalists sat at their typewriters and pecked away at the first lead of their careers. According to Ephron, she and most of the other students produced leads that reordered th e facts and con- densed them into a single sentence: "Governor Pat B rown, Margaret Mead, and Robert Maynard Hutchins will address the Beverly Hills High School faculty Thursday in Sacramento . . . bl ah, blah, blah." The teacher collected the leads and scanned them rapidly. Then he laid them aside and paused for a moment. 76 MADE TO STICK Finally, he said, "The lead to the story is 'There will be no school next Thursday.'" "It was a breathtaking moment," Ephron recalls. "In that instant I realized that journalism was not just about regurgitating the facts but about figuring out the point. It wasn't enough to know the who, what, when, and where; you had to understand what it meant. And why it mattered." For the rest of the year, she says, every assignment had a secret—a hidden point that the students had t o figure out in order to produce a good story. This idea should be in the Sticky Hall of Fame. This teacher had a huge impact not because he was a dynamic speaker or a caring mentor—though he may have been both —but because he crafted a brilliant idea. It was an idea that, in a matter of seconds, rewrote the schema of journalism in the minds of his students. An idea that changed a student's career plans and stuck with her thirty years later. What made this idea work? First, the teacher knew that the stu- dents had a defective schema of journalism, and he knew how it was defective. Second, he made them publicly commit to their defective models with the "write the lead" assignment. Then he pulled the rug out from under them with a well-structured surprise. By revealing the right lead—"There will be no school next Thursday"— he took their mental models, gave them a swift kick, and made the m work better. UNEXPECTED 77 Does America Spend Too Much on Foreign Aid? the situation: Over the years, polls have shown that the majority of Americans think the federal government spends too much on foreign aid. The ratio has dropped toward fifty/fifty since 9/11, but half of Americans still think we overspend. Let's look at two arguments that try to persuade people that we spend too little, not too much. message 1: Here is a message from the Intercommunity Peace and Justice Center, a Catholic advocacy group: Americans persist in thinking we spend too much on foreign aid despite honest efforts to inform the public by the State Department and other government agencies. Even President Bush's proposed in- creases, though welcome, will not make the United States generous in its foreign assistance. In fiscal year 2003, the Bush administration will spend about $15-billion in foreign aid, but over $7-billion of this amount—almost half—will be military, not economic assistance. The $8-billion in foreign economic assistance is, according to a recent es- timate by the Congressional Budget Office, less than the cost of one month of war with Iraq. Of all the industrialized nations, the U.S. spends proportionally the least amount on foreign aid, and has for many years. All of sub-Saharan Africa receives just over $1-billion of economic assistance, about the cost of a B-2 bomber. Our foreign aid programs do not support our belief that we are a nation known for its good works around the world. comments on message 1: First, notice that the lead has been buried. The last sentence is the most effective argument. Americans' schema 78 MADE TO STICK of the United States is that it is a generous, caring country—"known for its good works around the world." The way to break that schema is to lay out the blunt fact that the United States "spends proportion- ally the least amount on foreign aid, and has for many years." The numbers in billions are unlikely to stick—huge numbers are difficult to grasp and hard to remember. One effective part of the message, in combating this "big-number problem," is the analogy comparing our sub-Saharan Africa aid to the cost of a single B-2 bomber. We really like this comparison, because it puts the reader in a decision-making mode: "Would I trade one B-2 bomber for the chance to double aid to sub-Saharan Africa?" To make this message stickier, let's try two things. First, let's just reshuffle the great raw materials that are already there while down- playing the numbers in the billions. Second, let's choose a concrete comparison that has a better emotional resonance. Some people might think B-2 bombers are a reasonable expense. Let's try to create a comparison that would be more unexpected because it's clearly frivolous. message 2: Our foreign-aid programs do not support our belief that we are a nation known for its good works around the world. The pub- lic believes we spend a great deal more money helping other coun- tries than we actually do. Polls suggest that most Americans think the federal government spends about 10 to 15 percent of its budget on foreign aid. The truth is that we spend less than 1 percent, the lowest of any industrialized nation. All of sub-Saharan Africa receives just over $1 billion in economic aid. If everyone in the United States gave up one soft drink a month, we could double our current aid to Africa. If everyone gave up one movie a year, we could double our current aid to Africa and Asia. UNEXPECTED 79 comments on message 2: Here's what we tried to do to make this message stickier: