the specific actions taken by specific members of the local com- munity—that knowledge informs the kinds of photo op s you look for. Do you shoot the boring committee deliberations or the gorgeous sunset over the park? Answer: the boring committee deliberations. Palm Pilot and the Visual Proverb Compact ideas help people learn and remember a core message. But they may be even more important when it comes time to help people act properly, particularly in an environment where they have to make lots of choices. Why do remote controls have more buttons than we ever use? The answer starts with the noble intentions of engineers. Most tech- nology and product-design projects must combat "feature creep," the SIMPLE 49 tendency for things to become incrementally more co mplex until they no longer perform their original functions ver y well. A VCR is a case in point. Feature creep is an innocent process. An engineer looking at a prototype of a remote control might think to herself, "Hey, there's some extra real estate here on the face of the control. And there's some extra processing capacity on the chip. Rather than let it go to waste, what if we give people the ability to toggle between the Julian and Gregorian calendars?" The engineer is just trying to help—to add another gee-whiz fea- ture that will improve the remote control. The other engineers on the team, meanwhile, don't particularly care about the calendar-toggle. Even if they think it's lame, they probably don't care enough to stage a protest: "Either the calendar-toggle button goes or I quit!" In this way, slowly and quietly, remote controls—and, by ex tension, other types of technologies — are featured to death. The Palm Pilot team, aware of this danger, took a hard line against feature creep. When the team began its work, in the early 1990s, per- sonal digital assistants (PDAs) had an unblemished record of failure. Apple's famous debacle with its Newton PDA had made other com- petitors gun-shy. One of the competitors on the PDA market in 1994 lo oked like a malnourished computer. It was a bulky device with a keyboard and multiple ports for peripherals. Jeff Hawkins, the Palm Pilot team leader, was determined that his product would avoid this fate. He wanted the Palm Pilot to be simple. It would handle four things: cal- endars, contacts, memos, and task lists. The Palm P ilot would do only four things, but it would do them well. Hawkins fought feature creep by carrying around a wooden block the size of the Palm. Trae Vassallo, a member of the Palm V design team, says, "The block was dumb, which resonated with the simple technological goals of the product, but it was also small, which made 50 MADE TO STICK the product elegant and different." Hawkins would pull out the wooden block to "take notes" during a meeting or "c heck his calen- dar" in the hallway. Whenever someone suggested another feature, Hawkins would pull out the wooden block and ask the m where it would fit. Vassallo said that the Palm Pilot became a successful product "al- most because it was defined more in terms of what it was not than in terms of what it was." Tom Kelley, from IDEO, a pro minent Silicon Valley design firm, made a similar point: "The real barrier to the ini- tial PDAs . . . was the idea that the machine had to do nearly every- thing." Hawkins knew that the core idea of his project need ed to be ele- gance and simplicity (and a tenacious avoidance of feature creep). In sharing this core idea, Hawkins and his team used what was, in essence, a visual proverb. The block of wood became a visual re- minder to do a few things and do them well. There is a striking parallel between the development of the Palm Pilot and the Clinton campaign led by James Carville. In both cases, the teams were composed of people who were knowledgeable and passionate about their work. Both teams boasted ple nty of people who had the capability and the desire to do a lot of different things—argue every issue and engineer every feature. Yet in both cases the team needed a simple reminder to fight the temptation to do too much. When you say three things, you say nothing. When yo ur remote con- trol has fifty buttons, you can't change the channel anymore. SIMPLE 51 Using What's There Our messages have to be compact, because we can learn and re- member only so much information at once. But suppos e we've as- sessed the core of our message and we have too much information to aspire to the compactness of a proverb. How do we convey lots of in- formation when we need to? The following exercise i s designed to re- inforce the need for compactness and to provide a hint about how to cram more information into a compact message. Here are the rules of this exercise: Spend ten to fifteen seconds, no more, studying the letters below. Then close the book, pull out a sheet of paper, and write down as many letters as you can remember. Spoiler alert: Don't turn the page until you've finished the exercise. J FKFB INAT OUP SNA SAI RS If you're like most people, you probably remembered about seven to ten letters. That's not much information. Compactness is essential, because there's a limit to the amount of information we can juggle at once. Now turn the page and try the exercise again. 52 MADE TO STICK. There's a twist this time. We haven't changed the letters or the se- quence. All we've done is change the way the letters are grouped. Once again, study the letters for ten to fifteen seconds, then close the book and test your recall. JFK FBI NATO UPS NASA IRS Chances are you did much better the second time. Suddenly the letters meant something, which made them easier to remember. In Round 1, you were trying to remember raw data. In Round 2, you were remembering concepts: John F. Kennedy, the FBI, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, UPS, NASA, the IRS. But wait a second. Why is it easier to remember "Jo hn F. Kennedy" than the random letters F, J, K? Surely John F. Kennedy is a bigger bundle of information than the three random letters! Think of all the associations with JFK—politics, relationships, his assassination, and his famous family. If remembering was like weight lifting, it would be ridiculous to think we could "lift" JFK easier than three little letters! The secret, of course, is that we're not "lifting" JFK. All the re- membering work related to JFK has already been done. We've already built those muscles—the concept of JFK, and all its associations, is al- ready embedded in our memories. What we're remembering is sim- ply a pointer to this information—we're posting a l ittle flag on the terrain of our memory. With the raw letters, we're posting three sepa- rate flags. In the end, it's one bit of information (or one flag) versus three, and it's no surprise that one is