expertise came from very different fields, but we had zeroed in on the same question: Why do some ideas succeed while others fail? Dan had developed a passion for education. He co-founded a start-up publishing company called Thinkwell that asked a somewhat heretical question: If you were going to build a textbook from scratch, using video and technology instead of text, how would you do it? As the editor in chief of Thinkwell, Dan had to work with his team to de- termine the best ways to teach subjects like economics, biology, cal- culus, and physics. He had an opportunity to work with some of the most effective and best-loved professors in the country: the calculus teacher who was also a stand-up comic; the biology teacher who was named national Teacher of the Year; the economics teacher who was also a chaplain and a playwright. Essentially, Dan enjoyed a crash course in what makes great teachers great. And he found that, while INTRODUCTION 11 each teacher had a unique style, collectively their instructional methodologies were almost identical. Chip, as a professor at Stanford University, had spent about ten years asking why bad ideas sometimes won out in the social market- place of ideas. How could a false idea displace a true one? And what made some ideas more viral than others? As an entry point into these topics, he dove into the realm of "naturally sticky" ideas such as urban legends and conspiracy theories. Over the years, he's become uncomfortably familiar with some of the most repulsive and absurd tales in the annals of ideas. He's heard them all. Here's a very small sampler: The Kentucky Fried Rat. Really, any tale that involves rats and fast food is on fertile ground. Coca-Cola rots your bones. This fear is big in Japa n, but so far the country hasn't experienced an epidemic of gelati- nous teenagers. If you flash your brights at a car whose headlights are off, you will be shot by a gang member. The Great Wall of China is the only man-made object that is visible from space. (The Wall is really long but not very wide. Think about it: If the Wall were visible, then any in- terstate highway would also be visible, and maybe a few Wal-Mart superstores as well.) You use only 10 percent of your brain. (If this were true, it would certainly make brain damage a lot less worrisome.) Chip, along with his students, has spent hundreds o f hours col- lecting, coding, and analyzing naturally sticky ideas: urban legends, wartime rumors, proverbs, conspiracy theories, and jokes. Urban leg- ends are false, but many naturally sticky ideas are true. In fact, per- haps the oldest class of naturally sticky ideas is the proverb—a nugget 12 MADE TO STICK of wisdom that often endures over centuries and across cultures. As an example, versions of the proverb "Where there's smoke there's fire" have appeared in more than fifty-five different languages. In studying naturally sticky ideas, both trivial and profound, Chip has conducted more than forty experiments with more than 1,700 participants on topics such as: • Why Nostradamus's prophecies are still read after 400 years • Why Chicken Soup for the Soul stories are inspirational • Why ineffective folk remedies persist A few years ago, he started teaching a course at Stanford called "How to Make Ideas Stick." The premise of the course was that if we understood what made ideas naturally sticky we might be better at making our own messages stick. During the past few years he has taught this topic to a few hundred students bound for careers as managers, public-policy analysts, journalists, designers, and film di- rectors. To complete the story of the Brothers Heath, in 2004 it dawned on us that we had been approaching the same problem from different angles. Chip had researched and taught what made id eas stick. Dan had tried to figure out pragmatic ways to make ideas stick. Chip had compared the success of different urban legends and stories. Dan had compared the success of different math and government lessons. Chip was the researcher and the teacher. Dan was the practitioner and the writer. (And we knew that we could make our parents happy by spending more quality time together.) We wanted to take apart sticky ideas—both natural a nd created — and figure out what made them stick. What makes urban legends so compelling? Why do some chemistry lessons work better than others? Why does virtually every society circulate a set of proverbs? Why do some political ideas circulate widely while others fall short? In short, we were looking to understand what sticks.We adopted INTRODUCTION 13 the "what sticks" terminology from one of our favorite authors, Mal- colm Gladwell. In 2000, Gladwell wrote a brilliant book called The Tipping Point, which examined the forces that cause social phenom- ena to "tip," or make the leap from small groups to big groups, the way contagious diseases spread rapidly once they infect a certain crit- ical mass of people. Why did Hush Puppies experience a rebirth? Why did crime rates abruptly plummet in New York City? Why did the book Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood catch on? The Tipping Point has three sections. The first addresses the need to get the right people, and the third addresses the need for the right context. The middle section of the book, "The Stickiness Factor," ar- gues that innovations are more likely to tip when they're sticky. When The Tipping Point was published, Chip realized that "stickiness" was the perfect word for the attribute that he was chasing with his re- search into the marketplace of ideas. This book is a complement to The Tipping Point in the sense that we will identify the traits that make ideas sticky, a subject that was be- yond the scope of Gladwell's book. Gladwell was interested in what makes social epidemics epidemic. Our interest is in how effective ideas are constructed—what makes some ideas stick a nd others dis- appear. So, while our focus will veer away from The Tipping Point's turf, we want to pay tribute to Gladwell for the word "stickiness." It stuck. Who Spoiled Halloween? In the 1960s and 1970s, the tradition of Halloween trick-or-treating came under attack. Rumors circulated about Halloween sadists who put razor blades in apples and booby-trapped pieces of candy. The ru- mors affected the Halloween tradition nationwide. P arents carefully examined their children's candy bags. Schools opened their doors at night so that kids could trick-or-treat in a safe environment. Hospitals volunteered to X-ray candy bags. 14 MADE TO STICK In 1985, an ABC News poll showed that 60 percent of parents worried that their children might be victimized. To this day, many parents warn their children not to eat any snacks that aren't prepack- aged. This is a sad story: a family holiday sullied by bad people who, inexplicably, wish to harm children. But in 1985 the story took a strange twist. Researchers discovered something shocking about the candy-tampering epidemic: It was a myth. The researchers, sociologists Joel Best and Gerald Horiuchi, stud- ied every reported Halloween incident since 1958. T hey