and Aris- totle, after all. Havelock believes that the stories evolved away from abstraction over time. When they were passed along from generation to generation, the more memorable concrete details survived and the abstractions evaporated. Let's skip to the modern world and another timeless and beautiful domain of expression: accounting. Put yourself in t he shoes of an ac- counting professor who has to introduce accounting principles to col- lege students. To a new student, accounting can seem bewilderingly abstract—the income statement, the balance sheet, T -accounts, ac- counts receivable, treasury stock. No people or sensory data in sight. As the teacher, how do you make accounting concepts vivid? Two professors from Georgia State University, Carol Springer and Faye Borthick, decided to try something radically different. In the fall of 2000, Springer and Borthick taught a semester of accounting using, as a centerpiece, a semester-long case study. The case study followed a new business launched by two imaginary college sophomores, Kris and Sandy, at LeGrande State University. Kris and Sandy had an idea for a new product called Safe Night Out (SNO), a device targeted at parents with teenagers who were old enough to drive. Installed in the teenager's car, the' device would record the route and speed of the car. For the first time, parents could confirm whether their car was being driven responsibly. At this point you, as a student in introductory accounting, become part of the story. Kris and Sandy are your friends, and they've heard that you're taking an accounting class. They need your help. They ask, Is our business idea feasible? How many units would we have to sell in order to pay for our tuition? You are given guidance on how to track 108 MADE TO STICK down the costs of the relevant materials (GPS receivers, storage hard- ware) and partnerships (how much it would cost to sell it on eBay). The semester-long Kris and Sandy soap opera reveale d the role that accounting plays in business life. Every accounting course de- fines the distinction between fixed and variable costs, but in the soap opera this distinction wasn't so much denned as discovered. Kris and Sandy have to pay some costs no matter what, such as the program- ming expense for developing the product. Those are fixed costs. Other costs are incurred only when products are made or sold—the cost of the materials or eBay's commission, for example. Those are variable costs. If your friends are pouring their tuition money into a start-up business, those distinctions matter. The case study is an example of learning in context, similar to the teachers in the Asian math classrooms. But in the math classrooms a student might encounter 300 different examples over the course of a semester. In the accounting class, students had one example that was sufficiently rich to encompass a semester's worth of material. As the semester progresses, you witness, from your hot seat as Kris and Sandy's accountant, the evolution of their business. A local court approaches Kris and Sandy wanting to use the SNO de vice for its parolees, but it wants to lease the device rather than buy it. How should Kris and Sandy respond? Later, the business begins to grow rapidly, but suddenly Kris and Sandy make a panicked call to you, having bounced a check. They've been selling more units than ever, yet there's no cash in the bank. How is that possible? (This problem is faced by many start- up businesses, and it introduces the difference bet ween profitability and cash flow.) The answer becomes clear to you only after you've worked through a month of payment slips and eBay receipts. So, did the students learn better? At first it was hard to say. The changes to the course made it hard to compare final exams directly with those of previous years. Some students seemed more enthusias- tic about the new course, but others groused because the case study demanded a lot of time. Over time, however, the benefits of the con- CONCRETE 109 crete case study became increasingly obvious. After experiencing the case study, students with high GPAs were more likel y to major in ac- counting. The concreteness actually made the most capable students want to become accountants. But the case study also had positive effects for regular students. In the next accounting course—taken an average of two years later—the first section of the course built heavily on the concepts that students were supposed to have learned in introductory accounting. Students who had worked through the case study scored noticeably higher on this first exam. In fact, the difference in scores was particularly dra- matic for students with a C average overall. Generally speaking, they scored twelve points higher. And remember, this is two years after the case study ended. Concreteness sticks. The Velcro Theory of Memory What is it about concreteness that makes ideas stick? The answer lies with the nature of our memories. Many of us have a sense that remembering something is a bit like putting it in storage. To remember a story is to file it away in our cere- bral filing cabinets. There's nothing wrong with that analogy. But the surprising thing is that there may be completely different filing cabi- nets for different kinds of memories. You can actually test this idea for yourself. The following set of sentences will ask you to remember various ideas. Spend five or ten seconds lingering on each one—don't rush through th em. As you move from one sentence to another, you'll notice that it feels different to remember different kinds of things. * Remember the capital of Kansas. * Remember the first line of "Hey Jude" (or some other song that you know well). * Remember the Mona Lisa. 110 MADE TO STICK * Remember the house where you spent most of your child- hood. * Remember the definition of "truth." * Remember the definition of "watermelon." David Rubin, a cognitive psychologist at Duke University, uses this exercise to illustrate the nature of memory. Each command to re- member seems to trigger a different mental activity. Remembering the capital of Kansas is an abstract exercise, unless you happen to live in Topeka. By contrast, when you think about "Hey Jude," you may hear Paul McCartney's voice and piano playing. (If the phrase "Hey Jude" drew a blank, please exchange this book for a Beatles album. You'll be happier.) No doubt the Mona Lisa memory conjured a visual image of that famously enigmatic smile. Remembering your childhood home might have evoked a host of memories—smells, sounds , sights. You might even have felt yourself running through your home, or re- membering where your parents used to sit. The definition of "truth" may have been a bit harder to sum- mon—you certainly have a sense of what "truth" mean s, but you probably had no preformulated definition to pluck out of memory, as with the Mona Lisa. You might have had to create a definition on the fly that seemed to fit with your sense of what "truth" means. The definition of "watermelon" might also have involved some mental gyrations. The word "watermelon" immediately evoked sense