not noticing that the assemblers just want us to follow them down to the factory floor. CHAPTER 4 CREDIBLE Over the course of a lifetime, one person in ten will develop an ulcer. Duodenal ulcers, the most common type, are al- most never fatal, but they are extremely painful. For a long time, the cause of ulcers was a mystery. Conventional wisdom held that ulcers developed when surplus acid built up in the stomach, eat- ing through the stomach wall. Such surplus acid could be caused, it was thought, by stress, spicy foods, or lots of alcohol. Ulcer treatments traditionally focused on mitigating the painful symptoms, since there was no clear way to "cure" an ulcer. In the early 1980s, two medical researchers from Perth, Australia, made an astonishing discovery: Ulcers are caused by bacteria. The re- searchers, Barry Marshall and Robin Warren, identified a tiny spiral- shaped type of bacteria as the culprit. (It would later be named Helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori.) The significance of this discovery was enormous: If ulcers were caused by bacteria, they could be cured. In fact, they could be cured within a matter of days by a simple treat- ment with antibiotics. The medical world, however, did not rejoice. There were no cele- brations for Marshall and Warren, who had almost single-handedly CREDIBLE 131 improved the health prospects of several hundred million human be- ings. The reason for the lack of acclaim was simple: No one believed them. There were several problems with the bacteria story. The first problem was common sense. The acid in the stomach i s potent stuff—it can, obviously, eat through a thick steak, and it's (less obvi- ously) strong enough to dissolve a nail. It was ludicrous to think that bacteria could survive in such an environment. It would be like stum- bling across an igloo in the Sahara. The second problem was the source. At the time of t he discovery, Robin Warren was a staff pathologist at a hospital in Perth; Barry Mar- shall was a thirty-year-old internist in training, not even a doctor yet. The medical community expects important discoveries to come from Ph.D.s at research universities or professors at large, world-class med- ical centers. Internists do not cure diseases that affect 10 percent of the world's population. The final problem was the location. A medical researcher in Perth is like a physicist from Mississippi. Science is science, but, thanks to basic human snobbery, we tend to think it will emerge from some places but not others. Marshall and Warren could not even get their research paper ac- cepted by a medical journal. When Marshall presented their findings at a professional conference, the scientists snickered. One of the re- searchers who heard one of his presentations commented that he "simply didn't have the demeanor of a scientist." To be fair to the skeptics, they had a reasonable argument: Mar- shall and Warren's evidence was based on correlatio n, not causation. Almost all of the ulcer patients seemed to have H. pylori. Unfortu- nately, there were also people who had H. pylori but no ulcer. And, as for proving causation, the researchers couldn't very well dose a bunch of innocent people with bacteria to see whether the y sprouted ulcers. By 1984, Marshall's patience had run out. One morning he 132 MADE TO STICK skipped breakfast and asked his colleagues to meet him in the lab. While they watched in horror, he chugged a glass filled with about a billion H. pylori. "It tasted like swamp water," he said. Within a few days, Marshall was experiencing pain, nausea, and vomiting—the classic symptoms of gastritis, the ear ly stage of an ulcer. Using an endoscope, his colleagues found that his stomach lin- ing, previously pink .and healthy, was now red and inflamed. Like a magician, Marshall then cured himself with a course of antibiotics and bismuth (the active ingredient in Pepto-Bismol). Even after this dramatic demonstration, the battle wasn't over. Other scientists quibbled with the demonstration. Marshall had cured himself before he developed a full-blown ulcer, they argued, so maybe he had just generated ulcer symptoms rather than a genuine ulcer. But Marshall's demonstration gave a second wind to supporters of the bacteria theory, and subsequent research amassed more and more evidence in its favor. In 1994, ten years later, the National Institutes of Health finally endorsed the idea that antibiotics were the preferred treatment for ul- cers. Marshall and Warren's research contributed to an important theme in modern medicine: that bacteria and viruses cause more dis- eases than we would think. It is now known that cervical cancer is caused by the contagious human papillomavirus, or HPV. Certain types of heart disease have been linked to cytomegalovirus, a com- mon virus that infects about two thirds of the population. In the fall of 2005, Marshall and Warren received the Nobel Prize in medicine for their work. These two men had a brilliant, Nobel- worthy, world-changing insight. So why did Marshall have to poison himself to get people to believe him? Finding Credibility Let's pose the question in the broadest possible terms: What makes people believe ideas? How's that for an ambitious question? Let's start CREDIBLE 133 with the obvious answers. We believe because our parents or our friends believe. We believe because we've had experiences that led us to our beliefs. We believe because of our religious faith. We believe because we trust authorities. These are powerful forces —family, personal experie nce, faith. And, thankfully, we have no control over the way these forces affect people. We can't route our memos through people's mothers to add credibility. We can't construct a PowerPoint presentation that will nullify people's core beliefs. If we're trying to persuade a skeptical audience to believe a new message, the reality is that we're fighting an uphill battle against a lifetime of personal learning and social relationships. It would seem that there's nothing much we can do to affect what people believe. But if we're skeptical about our ability to affect belief, we merely have to look at naturally sticky ideas, because some of them persuade us to believe some pretty incredible things. Around 1999, an e-mail message spread over the Internet, for- warded from person to person, claiming that shipmen ts of bananas from Costa Rica were infected with necrotizing fasciitis, otherwise known as flesh-eating bacteria. People were warned not to purchase bananas for the next three weeks, and urged to seek medical atten- tion!!! if they contracted a rash after eating a banana. The e-mail also warned, "The skin infection from necrotizing fasciitis is very painful and eats two to three centimeters of flesh per hour. Amputation is likely, death is possible." It claimed that the Food and Drug Adminis- tration (FDA) was reluctant to issue a general warning because it feared a nationwide panic. (One would think that disappearing cen- timeters of flesh might be sufficient to cause a panic, even in the ab- sence of the FDA's response.) This surprising messa ge was attributed to the Manheim Research Institute. This bizarre rumor spread at least in part because it had an air of authority. It was circulated by the