their mission, or that much time was spent at NASA quibbling about the meaning of "man," "moon," or "decade." Concreteness makes targets transparent. Even experts need trans- parency. Consider a software start-up whose goal is to build "the next great search engine." Within the start-up are two programmers with nearly identical knowledge, working in neighboring cubes. To one "the next great search engine" means completeness, ensuring that the search engine returns everything on the Web that might be rele- vant, no matter how obscure. To the other it means speed, ensuring pretty good results very fast. Their efforts will not be fully aligned until the goal is made concrete. When Boeing prepared to launch the design of the 72 7 passenger plane in the 1960s, its managers set a goal that was deliberately con- crete: The 727 must seat 131 passengers, fly nonstop from Miami to New York City, and land on Runway 4-22 at La Guardi a. (The 4-22 runway was chosen for its length —less than a mile, which was much too short for any of the existing passenger jets.) With a goal this con- crete, Boeing effectively coordinated the actions of thousands of ex- perts in various aspects of engineering or manufacturing. Imagine how much harder it would have been to build a 727 whose goal was to be "the best passenger plane in the world." The Ferraris Go to Disney World in the R & D Lab Stone Yamashita Partners, a small consulting firm in San Francisco, was founded by Robert Stone and Keith Yamashita, former Apple ere- CONCRETE 117 atives. Stone Yamashita is a master of using concrete techniques to help organizations create change. "Almost everything we do is visceral and visual," Keith Yamashita says. The "product" of most consulting firms is often a PowerPoint presentation. At Stone Yamashita, it's much more likely to be a simulation, an event, or a creative installation. Around 2002, Stone Yamashita was approached by Hewl ett- Packard (HP). HP's top management team hoped to win a partner- ship with Disney, and they asked Stone Yamashita to help prepare a proposal that would highlight HP research, and show how it could help Disney run its theme parks. HP, like many technology firms, generates great research in its lab- oratories, but that research isn't always translated into tangible physi- cal products. Researchers get excited about pushing the boundaries of a technology, making products that are complex and sophisticated, while customers generally seek out products that are easy and reliable. The desires of researchers and customers don't alwa ys dovetail. The "presentation" that Stone Yamashita designed was an exhibit that filled 6,000 square feet. Yamashita describes the gist: "We in- vented a fictitious family called the Ferraris, three generations of them, and built an exhibit about their life and their visit to Disney World." Walking into the exhibit, you began in the Ferraris' living room, furnished with family photos. Each subsequent room followed the Ferraris through various scenes of their Disney World vacation. HP technology helped them buy tickets, sped their entr y into the park, and scheduled their reservations for dinner. Another bit of technol- ogy helped them enjoy their favorite rides while mi nimizing waiting time. Back inside their hotel room at the end of the day, there was a final twist: A digital picture frame had automatically downloaded a picture of them as they rode a Disney World roller coaster. Stone Yamashita, working with HP's engineers, turned a message about the benefits of collaboration—what could have been a Power- Point presentation —into a living, breathing simula tion. Stone Yama- 118 MADE TO STICK shita put hooks into the idea of e-services. They took an abstract idea and made it concrete with an intense sensory experience. Note that there were two different audiences for the exhibit. The first audience was Disney. Disney's execs were the "novices"—they needed to be shown, in tangible terms, what HP's technology could do for them. Then there were HP's employees, particularly the engi- neers. They were far from novices. Many engineers had been skepti- cal about the value of Yamashita's demos. Once the exhibit opened, however, it produced tremendous enthusiasm within HP. It was ini- tially intended to stay up long enough to make the Disney pitch, but, because it was so popular, it remained for three or four months after- ward. One observer said, "It became very viral in that others began to ask, 'Did you see that great thing that the labs team did? Did you know that we could do this? Did you know that they did it in only twenty-eight days?'" Concreteness helped this team of experts coordinate. A diverse group of engineers, accustomed to contemplating difficult technol- ogy problems, suddenly came face-to-face with the Ferrari family. By grappling with one family's concrete needs —their t ickets and reserva- tions and photos—they did something remarkable: The y took ab- stract ideas from their research labs and turned them into a family picture on a roller-coaster ride. CONCRETE 119 Concrete Brings Knowledge to Bear: White Things Grab a pencil and a piece of paper and find a way to time yourself (a watch, a spouse who likes to count, etc.). Here is a do-it-yourself test on concreteness. You'll do two brief fifteen-second exercises. When you've got your supplies ready, set your timer for fifteen sec- onds, then follow the instructions for Step 1 below. STEP 1 INSTRUCTIONS: Write down as many things that are white in color as you can think of. STOP. Reset your timer for fifteen seconds. Turn the page for the instructions for Step 2. 120 MADE TO STICK STEP 2 INSTRUCTIONS: Write down as many white things in your refrigerator as you can think of. Most people, remarkably, can list about as many white things from their refrigerators as white anythings. This result is stunning be- cause, well, our fridges don't include a particularly large part of the universe. Even people who list more white anythings often feel that the refrigerator test is "easier." Why does this happen? Because concreteness is a way of mobiliz- ing and focusing your brain. For another example of this phenome- non, consider these two statements: (1) Think of five silly things that people have done in the world in the past ten years. (2) Think about five silly things your child has done in the past ten years. Sure, this is a neat brain trick. But what value does it have? Con- sider a situation where an entrepreneur used this neat brain trick to earn a $4.5 million investment from a savvy and sophisticated group of investors. Kaplan and Go Computers For an entrepreneur, having the chance to pitch a business idea to local venture capitalists is a big deal, like a budding actor getting an audition with an independent film director. But having a chance to pitch an idea to Kleiner Perkins —the most prestigi ous firm in Silicon Valley—is more like a private one-on-one audition w ith Steven Spiel- berg. You could walk out a star, or you could walk out having blown the biggest chance of your life. And that's why twenty-nine-year-old Jerry Kaplan was nervous as he stood