face hunger. * Four million Angolans—one third of the populatio n—have been forced to flee their homes. * More than 11 million people in Ethiopia need immediate food assistance. The other version of the letter gave information about a single young girl: * Any money that you donate will go to Rokia, a seven-year-old girl from Mali, Africa. Rokia is desperately poor a nd faces the threat of severe hunger or even starvation. Her life will be changed for the better as a result of your financial gift. With your support, and the support of other caring sponsors, Save the Children will work with Rokia's family and other mem- bers of the community to help feed and educate her and pro- vide basic medical care and hygiene education. The researchers gave participants one of the two di fferent letters, then left them alone. They chose how much money, if any, to put back into the envelope, then they sealed the envelope and handed it back to a researcher. On average, the people who read the statistics contributed $1.14. The people who read about Rokia contributed $2.38 — more than twice as much. It seems that most people have something in common with Mother Teresa: When it comes to our hearts, one individual trumps the masses. The researchers believed that the smaller donations for the statis- tical letter could be a result of what they called the "drop in the EMOTIONAL 167 bucket effect." If people felt overwhelmed by the scale of the prob- lem, their small donations might have seemed meanin gless. But here's where things get even more interesting. The researchers de- cided to give a third group of people both sets of information —the statistics and the story about Rokia. The researchers wondered whether people who got all the information would give more, on av- erage, than the $2.38 that had been given by the Rokia group. Per- haps the combination of statistics and stories —the power of individual need coupled with the statistical scale of the problem— would inspire a whole new level of giving. Nope. The people who received both letters gave $1.43, almost a dollar less than the people who got the Rokia story alone. Some- how the statistics —evidence of massive human suffe ring in Africa — actually made people less charitable. What was going on? The researchers theorized that thinking about statistics shifts peo- ple into a more analytical frame of mind. When people think analyt- ically, they're less likely to think emotionally. And the researchers believed it was people's emotional response to Rokia's plight that led them to act. To prove this argument, they ran a second study. In this study they primed some people to think in an analytical way by asking questions such as, "If an object travels at five feet per minute, then by your cal- culations how many feet will it travel in 360 seconds?" Other people were primed to think in terms of feelings: "Please write down one word to describe how you feel when you hear the word 'baby.'" Then both groups were given the Rokia letter. And, confirming the researchers' theory, the analytically primed people gave less. When people were primed to feel before they read about Rokia, they gave $2.34, about the same as before. But when they were primed to calculate before they read about Rokia, they gave $1.26. These results are shocking. The mere act of calculation reduced people's charity. Once we put on our analytical hat, we react to emo- tional appeals differently. We hinder our ability to feel. 168 MADE TO STICK In the last chapter, we discussed how to convince people that our ideas are credible, how to make them believe. Belief counts for a lot, but belief isn't enough. For people to take action, they have to care. Everyone believes there is tremendous human sufferi ng in Africa; there's no doubt about the facts. But belief does not necessarily make people care enough to act. Everyone believes that eating lots of fatty food leads to health problems; there's no doubt about the facts. But the belief does not make people care enough to act. Charities have long since figured out the Mother Te resa effect— they know that donors respond better to individuals than to abstract causes. You don't give to "African poverty," you sponsor a specific child. (In fact, the idea of sponsoring a child as a charitable hook dates back to the 1950s, when a young Christian minister encouraged Americans to sponsor needy Korean orphans.) The con cept works with animals, too. At Farm Sanctuary, a nonprofit organization that fights to reduce cruel treatment of farm animals, donors can "adopt a chicken" ($10 per month), a goat ($25), or a cow ($ 50). No one wants to donate to the General Administrative Fund of a charity. It's easy to understand, intellectually, why general funds would be needed—someone's got to buy the staples —b ut it's hard to generate a lot of passion for office supplies. Charities have learned how to arouse sympathy and compassion in donors—and thank goodness they're good at it, be cause their skills ease a lot of suffering. But "making people care" i sn't something that only charities need to do. Managers have to make people care enough to work long and hard on complex tasks. Teac hers have to make students care about literature. Activists have to make people care about city council initiatives. This chapter tackles the emotional component of stickiness, but it's not about pushing people's emotional buttons, like some kind of EMOTIONAL 169 movie tearjerker. Rather, the goal of making messages "emotional" is to make people care. Feelings inspire people to act . As an example, most teenagers believe that cigarette smoking is dangerous. There's no credibility problem with that message. Yet teenagers still take up smoking. So how do you tran sform their belief into action? You have to make them care. And, in 19 98, someone finally figured out how to do that. The Truth The commercial starts with a shot of a city street in New York City. The footage is video, not film —it's a bit dark, a bit unprofessional. It feels like a documentary, not a commercial. A caption flashes at the bottom of the screen: "Outside the headquarters of a major tobacco company." An eighteen-wheeler pulls up in front of the building, and a group of teenagers jump out. The teens begin to unload lo ng white sacks marked "Body Bag." They stack the bags on top of one another near the edge of the building. As the commercial progresses, the pile of body bags gets bigger and bigger. By the end of the ad, there are hun- dreds of bags in the pile. One of the teens shouts at the building through a megaphone, "Do you know how many people t obacco kills every day?" The daily death toll is revealed to be 1,800—the number of body bags the teens have piled up in front of the tobacco head- quarters. This ad is part of a series of ads called the Truth campaign. The campaign was launched by the American Legacy Founda