another because the y are the easiest to un- derstand and remember. See David C. Rubin, Memory in Oral Traditions: The Cognitive Psychology of Epic, Ballads, and Coun ting-Out Rhymes (Ox- ford: Oxford University Press, 1995). Concrete ideas are also more understandable. In education research, Mark Sadoski, Ernest Goetz, and colleagues have published a number of interesting papers illustrating that concrete ideas are more understandable, memorable, and, as a side benefit, more interesting. See Mark Sadoski, Ern- est T. Goetz, and Maximo Rodriguez, "Engaging Texts: Effects of Concrete- ness on Comprehensibility, Interest, and Recall in Four Text Types," Journal of Educational Psychology 92 (2000): 85-95. 266 NOTES 107 Yale researcher Eric Havelock: E. A. Havelock, Preface to Plato (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1963). 107 Two professors from Georgia State University: Carol W. Springer and A. Faye Borthick, "Business Simulation to Stage Cri tical Thinking in Intro- ductory Accounting: Rationale, Design, and Implemen tation," Issues in Ac- counting Education 19 (2004): 277-303. 111 Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes: The description of Jan e Elliott's antiprejudice simu- lation is taken from a PBS Frontline documentary, "A Class Divided." It's one of the most frequently requested programs in the station's history, winning an Emmy for Outstanding Informational, Cultural, or Hi storical Programming in 1985. It can be seen on the Web at wvvw.pbs.org/ wgbh/pages/frontline/ shows/divided/etc/view.html. 112 Studies conducted ten and twenty years later: Phil Zimbardo, Psychology and Life, 12th ed. (Glenview, 111.: Scott, Foresman, 1985), 634. 114 A researcher named Beth Bechky: B. A. Bechky, " Crossing Occupational Boundaries: Communication and Learning on a Product ion Floor," Ph.D. . diss., Stanford University, 1999. 116 The 727 must seat 131 passengers: Jim Collins and Jerry I. Porras, Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies (New York: HarperBusiness, 1994), 93. 116 The Ferraris Go to Disney World: The Stone-Yama shita work with HP is based on Victoria Chang and Chip Heath, "Stone-Yama shita and PBS: A Case at the Graduate School of Business," Stanford University Graduate School of Business case study SMI 19 (2004). 120 Kaplan and Go Computers: This example is from a great book by Jerry Kap- lan: Start-Up: A Silicon Valley Adventure (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1995). It's one of the best accounts we've read about the day-to-day uncertainty and struggle of being an entrepreneur and building a co mpany. And it's very funny. 121 My audience seemed tense: Ibid., 25-26. 122 Their investment valued: Kaplan's company, later named Go Computers, ultimately failed because the technology of its time wasn't sufficient to sup- port pen-based computers. Nonetheless, the idea of pen-based computing was so sticky—the "pocketable radio" of its generat ion —that several other firms in addition to Kaplan's arose and attracted venture capital dollars (and skilled engineering talent) to pursue the technology. 124 Diarrhea is one of the leading killers: Message 1 of the Oral Rehydration Therapy Clinic is from PSI, a Washington, D.C., nonprofit organization that NOTES 267 is doing innovative work on health for low-income populations. See www .psi.org/our_programs/products/ors.html. 125 "Do you know": Message 2 of the Oral Rehydration Therapy Clinic is by James Grant, who, during his time at UNICEF, made changes that have been credited with saving the lives of more than 25 million children. Vacci- nation rates increased, for example, from 20 percent to 80 percent. This re- markable stor)' is told in David Bornstein, How to Change the World: Social Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004). See page 248 for the quote. 128 "Saddleback Sam" Rick Warren, The Purpose-Driven Church (Grand Rapids, Mich.: Zondervan, 1995): 169. Warren's book explains the organizing principles of one of the largest and fastest-growing churches in the country. 4. Credible 131 "simply didn't have the demeanor": Daniel Q. Haney, "News That Ulcers Are Caused by Bacteria Travels Slowly to MDs," Buffalo News, February 11, 1996. 132 "It tasted like swamp water": Manveet Kaur, "Doctor Who Discovered 'Ulcer Bugs,'" New Straits Times, August 13, 2002, 6. 132 an important theme in modern medicine: Laura Beil, "A New Look at Old Ills: Research Finds Some Chronic Diseases May Be I nfectious," The Record (Northern New Jersey), March 24, 1997. 133 But if we're skeptical about: Naturally sticky ideas are a great source of in- sight about the process of persuasion, and researchers who study persuasion in psychology would benefit from studying them. Tra ditional studies of per- suasion in psychology have sidestepped the issue of credibility by creating a bunch of arguments, having people rate them for credibility, then using the ones that are rated as having high or low credibility. With the exception of a number of studies on the impact of authority, researchers have avoided trying to understand what makes messages credible. Yet rumors and urban legends regularly evolve features that ascribe credibility to bizarre claims. The "testable credentials" idea that we discuss in the chapter, for example, has been a feature of dozens of urban legends, yet it has not been discussed by the research literature on persuasion. 133 Around 1999, an e-mail message: The flesh-eating banana legend is dis- cussed at www.snopes.com/medical/disease/bananas.as p. 135 Pam Laffin, the Antiauthority: The story of Pam Laffin is described in Bella 268 NOTES English, "Sharing a Life Gone Up in Smoke," Boston Globe, September 20, 1998. 155 "I started smoking to look older": From the website of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, www.cdc.gov/tobacco /christy/myfhl.htm. 136 The Doe Fund sent a driver: We thank Spencer Robertson for this example. 138 "acquire a good deal": Jan Harold Brunvand, The Vanishing Hitchhiker: American Urban Legends and 'Their Meanings (New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 1981), 7. This book is largely responsible for creating the urban legends craze in the United States. For years, folklorists had been writing arti- cles about the folklore of modern people, but this book by Brunvand was ac- cessible enough that everyone started hearing about urban legends—and they were shocked to hear that different versions of their local stories were being told by everyone else in the nation. 138 By making a claim tangible: There is a running debate in the psychology lit- erature on the impact that vivid details have on memory and credibility. In our view, the evidence is confusing because researc hers have not been care- ful about distinguishing details that support or di stract from a core message.. People inevitably focus on and remember vivid details. When the vivid de- tails support the core message, it is more memorable and convincing, but ir- relevant vivid details can also distract people from the core and make a message less memorable and convincing (thus the concern, in educational psychology, about "seductive details"). A good summary of the issues can be found in Ernest T. Goetz and Mark Sadoski, "Commentary: The Perils of Se- duction: Distracting Details or Incomprehensible Abstractions?" Reading Re- search Quarterly 30 (1995), 500-11. 138 In 1986, Jonathan Shedler and Melvin Manis: Jonathan Shedler and Melvin Manis, "Can the Availability Heuristic Expla in Vividness Effects?" Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 51 (1986), 26-36. 145 "If, say, a soccer team": The Covey example is from an excerpt from his book reprinted in Fortune, November 29, 2004, 162.