ability to uncove r it. So the movie reviewer, in the quote above, was comparing Ra- shomon's "relative truth" to Einstein's theory of relativity. But Ein- stein's theory of relativity wasn't designed to say that "everything is relative." In fact, its actual meaning was essentially the opposite. The theory was designed to explain how the laws of physics are identical in every frame of reference. From Einstein's view, things don't look un- predictable; they look surprisingly orderly. Why did the reviewer link Rashomon with relativity? This refer- ence doesn't look like an appeal to Einstein's authority; it claims that Rashomon is the cinematic "equivalent" of Einstein's theory. Instead, the analogy seems intended to create a sense of awe—when we watch Rashomon, it implies, we will be in the presence of something pro- found. The theory of relativity is borrowed, as an association, because it lends an aura of emotional resonance —profundity, a we —to the movie. The movie review above is just one example a mong thou- sands. "Relativity" becomes, in a sense, a color on the idea palette. When you want to conjure up awe, you dab your brush into "relativ- ity." Other scientific terms—the "uncertainty princ iple," "chaos the- ory," the "quantum leap" of quantum mechanics—are a lso colors on this palette. In 1929, Einstein protested, "Philosophers play with the word, like a child with a doll. ... It does not mean that everything in life is relative." To Einstein's chagrin, the number of people trying to tap into the resonance of "relativity" began to exceed the number of peo- ple who were trying to understand relativity. EMOTIONAL 173 When associations to certain terms are drawn repeat edly—some- times with precision, sometimes with crudeness — th e effect is to di- lute the power of the terms and their underlying concepts. When everyone paints with lime green, lime green no longer stands out. Research conducted at Stanford and Yale shows that this process —exploiting terms and concepts for their em otional associa- tions—is a common characteristic of communication. People tend to overuse any idea or concept that delivers an emotional kick. The re- search labeled this overuse "semantic stretch." Let's look at a nonscientific example: the word "unique." "Unique" used to mean one of a kind. "Unique" was special. The researchers used a database to examine every ne wspaper arti- cle in each of the top fifty newspapers in the United States over a twenty-year period. During this time, the percentage of articles in which something was described as "unique" increased by 73 percent. So either there's a lot more unique stuff in the world today or the "uniqueness bar" has been lowered. Perhaps some skeptics, contemplating robot vacuum cleaners or Paris Hilton, would protest, "Hey, there is a lot more unique stuff in the world these days." But at the same time that the word "unique" was ris- ing in popularity, the word "unusual" was falling. In 1985, articles were more than twice as likely to use the word "unusual" as the word "unique." By 2005, the two words were about equally likely to be used. Unique things should be a subset of unusual things— unique (i.e., one of a kind) is about as unusual as you can get. So if there really were more unique things today, we should see more " unusual" things as well. The fact that unusual things are getting less common makes the rise in unique things look like a case of semantic stretch. What we used to call "unusual" we now stretch and call "unique." So where's the emotion in "relativity" and in "unique"? Here's the punch line: The most basic way to make people care is to form an as- sociation between something they don't yet care about and some- thing they do care about. We all naturally practice the tactic of 174 MADE TO STICK association. What "relativity" and "unique" teach us is that in using associations we can overuse colors. Over time, associations get over- used and become diluted in value; people end up saying things like "This is really, truly unique." The superlatives of one generation—groovy, awesome, cool, phat—fade over time because they've been associated with too many things. When you hear your father call something "c ool," coolness loses its punch. When your finance professor starts using the word "dude," you must eliminate the word from your vocabulary. Using as- sociations, then, is an arms race of sorts. The other guy builds a mis- sile, so you have to build two. If he's "unique," you've got to be "super-unique." This emotional-association arms race creates proble ms for people who are trying to make others care. In fact, as we'll see, the arms race essentially bankrupted the term "sportsmanship." Fighting Semantic Stretch: The Case of "Sportsmanship" In the last chapter, we discussed the coaching seminars held by Jim Thompson, the founder of the Positive Coaching Allia nce (PCA). Since 1988, when he founded the PCA, Thompson has struggled with an important problem. How do you clean up the bad behavior often associated with youth sports? In grappling with this problem, Thompson had to confront the issue of semantic stretch. The tennis player John McEnroe was once the poster child of poor sportsmanship, with his racket-throwing and br atty arguments with officials. But today McEnroe's behavior wouldn 't raise an eye- brow at many youth sports games. Bad behavior is now common not only among athletes but also among parents and other spectators. Ac- cording to the National Alliance for Youth Sports, nearly 15 percent of youth sports games involved a confrontation between parents or coaches and officials, up from 5 percent a few years ago. EMOTIONAL 175 Sportsmanship was once a powerful idea in athletics, but Thomp- son felt that it had become a weak term. "Sportsmanship trophies are seen as consolation prizes for losers," he says. One woman told Thompson that her high school basketball coach said that if his play- ers ever won a sportsmanship trophy, they'd have to run laps. Thomp- son adds, "Sportsmanship seems like it is mostly about not doing something bad: 'Don't yell at officials. Don't break the rules.' But it's not enough to simply refuse to do bad things. We need to expect much more of participants in youth sports. Unfortunately, 'Be a good sport!' is not the rallying cry that we need to transform youth sports." Everyone enjoys hearing about real examples of good sportsman- ship. Thompson uses the example of Lance Armstrong, who reacted unexpectedly when one of his chief opponents, Jan Ullrich, crashed during the Tour de France. Instead of taking advantage of this lucky break to increase his lead, Armstrong slowed down a nd waited for Ullrich to remount. He later said that he rode better when he was competing with a great athlete like Ullrich. That's sportsmanship. Thompson knew that people still admired the underlying ideals of sportsmanship. Parents did want their kids to learn respect and man- ners from athletics. Coaches did want to be mentors, not just victori- ous taskmasters. Kids did want their teams to be respected by others. All three groups sometimes slipped up and acted like jerks. But Thompson saw