graph is: supersized. The third paragraph is: very thick and soft rind. Six months from now, people will remember—at best! —the lead of our story. That means that with one story they'd remember "fruit" or "citrus fruit." With the other story they'd remember "grapefruit." The second story is clearly better—it isn't a judgm ent call. This concludes what will probably be the last psychological dis- cussion of citrus fruit you'll ever encounter. But though the concept of "pomelo" may not be worth the neurons you just b urned on it, the underlying concept—that schemas enable profound simplicity—is critical. Good teachers intuitively use lots of schemas. Economics teach- ers, for instance, start with compact, stripped-down examples that can be understood by students who have no preexisting economics schemas. "Let's say that you grow apples and I grow oranges. We're the only two people around. Let's also say that we'd prefer to eat some of both fruits rather than all of either. Should we trade? If so, how do we go about doing it?" Students are initially taught how trade works in this simplified context. This knowledge, in turn, becomes a basic trade schema for them. Once learned, this schema can be called up and stretched along some dimension. For example, what happens if you suddenly get better at growing apples? Do we still trade the same way we did before? To solve this problem, we're calling up a schema and adapt- ing it, just as we did in making a pomelo out of our grapefruit schema. Complexity from Simplicity Schemas help us create complex messages from simple materials. In school, lots of science courses are taught by clever uses of schemas. In- 56 MADE TO STICK troductory physics deals with simple, idealized situations: pulleys, in- clines, objects moving at constant rates along frictionless paths. As stu- dents become familiar with the "pulley" schema, it can be stretched in some way or merged with other schemas to solve more complicated problems. Another nice use of a schema is the solar system model of the atom, which many of us were taught as kids. This model posits that electrons orbit the nucleus, much as planets orbit the sun. This anal- ogy gives students a quick, compact insight into how the atom works. The planetary analogy also provides an insight into the reason that many people avoid compact schemas ("a supersized gr apefruit") in favor of exhaustive description ("a citrus fruit with a soft, thick rind, blah blah blah . . ."). The use of schemas can sometimes involve a somewhat slower route to the "real truth." For instance, physicists now know that electrons don't orbit the nucleus the way that planets do. In reality, electrons move in "probability clouds." So what do you tell a sixth grader? Do you talk about the motion o f planets, which is easy to understand and nudges you closer to the truth? Or do you talk about "probability clouds," which are impossible to understand but accurate? The choice may seem to be a difficult one: (1) accuracy first, at the expense of accessibility; or (2) accessibility first, at the expense of accuracy. But in many circumstances this is a false choice for one compelling reason: If a message can't be used to make predictions or decisions, it is without value, no matter how accurate or comprehen- sive it is. Herb Kelleher could tell a flight attendant that her goal is to "max- imize shareholder value." In some sense, this statement is more ac- curate and complete than that the goal is to be "TH E low-fare airline." After all, the proverb "THE low-fare airline" is clearly in- complete— Southwest could offer lower fares by elim inating aircraft maintenance, or by asking passengers to share napkins. Clearly, there are additional values (customer comfort, safety ratings) that refine SIMPLE 57 Southwest's core value of economy. The problem with "maximize shareholder value," despite its accuracy, is that it doesn't help the flight attendant decide whether to serve chicken salad. An accurate but useless idea is still useless. We discussed the Curse of Knowledge in the introduction—the difficulty of remembering what it was like not to know something. Accuracy to the point of uselessness is a symptom of the Curse of Knowledge. To a CEO, "maximizing shareholder value" may be an immensely useful rule of behavior. To a flight attendant, it's not. To a physicist, probability clouds are fascinating phenomena. To a child, they are incomprehensible. People are tempted to tell you everything, with perfect accuracy, right up front, when they should be giving you just enough info to be useful, then a little more, then a little more. Schemas in Hollywood: High-concept Pitches A great way to avoid useless accuracy, and to dodge the Curse of Knowledge, is to use analogies. Analogies derive their power from schemas: A pomelo is like a grapefruit. A good news story is struc- tured like an inverted pyramid. Skin damage is like aging. Analogies make it possible to understand a compact message because they in- voke concepts that you already know. A good analogy can wield a lot of power. In fact, in Hollywood $100 million movies can be green-lighted based largely on the strength of a one-sentence analogy. The average Hollywood studio considers hundreds of pitches or screenplays for every movie it makes. It may be hard to muster sym- pathy for the life of studio execs, but let's try for a moment. Imagine the terrifying decisions they must make. When they invest in a movie, they are essentially betting millions of dollars—an d their own reputa- tions—on an intangible idea. 58 MADE TO STICK Contrast a movie pitch with the blueprint for a home. If an archi- tect creates a nifty blueprint for a home, and someone puts up the money for construction, you can feel pretty confident that, nine months later, you'll have a home that realizes the architect's original vision. A movie pitch, on the other hand, is destined to change. When a screenwriter is hired, the story will change. When a director is hired, the artistic feel of the movie will change. When stars are hired to play the parts, their personalities will change how we perceive the charac- ters in the story. When producers are hired, the storytelling will be- come subject to financial and logistical constraints. And when the movie is completed, months or years later, the marketing team will need to find a way to explain the plot to the public in about thirty sec- onds—without giving away too much. Imagine investing millions in an idea that will change as it is fil- tered through the consciousness of a succession of individuals with giant egos: directors, stars, producers, marketers. That idea had better be good. In Hollywood, people use core ideas called "high-concept pitches." You've probably heard some of them. Speed was "Die Hard on a bus." 13 Going on 30 was "Big for girls." Alien was "Jaws on a spaceship." The high-concept pitches don't always reference other movies. E.T., for instance, was pitched as "Lost alien befriends lonely boy to get home." But a lot of pitches do invoke past movies. Why is that? Is