the babysitter and gas, and then hav- ing to put up with the hassles of going out, you will be able to spend your time at home, with your family, alone, or with your friends. Some readers have said that at first they didn't see any difference be- tween the two appeals. The difference is subtle. But go back and count up the number of times the word "you" appears in each appeal. In a sense, the study was a more elaborate version of Caples's ad- vice to avoid talking about abstract benefits ("Peo ple will enjoy a sense of security when they use Goodyear Tires") an d focus on per- sonal benefits ("You enjoy a sense of security when you use Goodyear Tires"). The Arizona study, though, took it a step further. It asked people to visualize the feeling of security they would get by using Goodyear tires. The homeowners filled out a questionnaire for the students and said goodbye. They thought they were finished with the research project, but the researchers still had another stage to complete. A month after the survey was conducted, cable TV arri ved in Tempe. The local cable company approached the homeowners for subscrip- tions. The university researchers managed to get subscriber data from the cable company. They then analyzed which homeowners had sub- scribed and which hadn't. The homeowners who got information about cable subscribed at a rate of 20 percent, which was about the same as the rest of the neighborhood. But the homeowners who imagined themselves sub- scribing to cable subscribed at a rate of 47 percent. The research paper, when it was published, was subtitled "Does I magining Make It So?" The answer was yes. 182 MADE TO STICK Compared with a typical mail-order ad, the "imagine cable tele- vision" appeal is a much more subtle appeal to self-interest. Note that the benefits offered were not fantastic in a Caples-esque way. The gist was that you could avoid the hassle of leaving home (!) by ordering cable. Indeed, just hearing about the benefits, in the abstract, wasn't enough to lure additional subscribers. It was only when people put themselves in the starring role— I can see myself watching a good movie at home with my hubby, and I can get up and c heck on the kids in the next room whenever I like . . . and think of all that babysitting money I'd save!— that their interest grew. This finding suggests that it may be the tangibility, rather than the magnitude, of the benefits that makes people care. You don't have to promise riches and sex appeal and magnetic personalities. It may be enough to promise reasonable benefits that people can easily imagine themselves enjoying. Imagine that Save the Children incorporated this idea into its pitches for sponsorship. Right now the pitch is "Yo u can sponsor Rokia, a little girl in Mali, for $30 per month"—a pitch that is already successful. But what if the pitch was expanded? "Imagine yourself as the sponsor of Rokia, a little girl in Mali. You've got a picture of her on your desk at work, next to your kids' pictures. During the past year you've traded letters with her three times, and you know from the let- ters that she loves to read and frequently gets annoyed by her little brother. She is excited that next year she'll get to play on the soccer team." That's powerful. (And it's not crass.) Maslow Self-interest isn't the whole story, of course—espe cially if we define "self- interest" narrowly, as we often do, in terms of wealth and security. If it were the whole story, no one would ever serve in the armed forces. There are things people care about that would never appear in a Caples ad. EMOTIONAL 183 In 1954, a psychologist named Abraham Maslow surveyed the re- search in psychology about what motivates people. H e boiled down volumes of existing research to a list of needs and desires that people try to fulfill: * Transcendence: help others realize their potential * Self-actualization: realize our own potential, self-fulfillment, peak experiences * Aesthetic: symmetry, order, beauty, balance * Learning: know, understand, mentally connect * Esteem: achieve, be competent, gain approval, indepen- dence, status * Belonging: love, family, friends, affection * Security: protection, safety, stability * Physical: hunger, thirst, bodily comfort You may remember this list as Maslow's Pyramid, or Maslow's Hierar- chy of Needs. Maslow's list of needs was incredibly insightful, but he was wrong to describe it as a "hierarchy." Maslow saw the hierarchy as a ladder—to be climbed rung by rung from the bot tom up. You couldn't fill your longing for Esteem until you satisfied your longing for Security. You couldn't fill your Aesthetic needs until your Physi- cal needs were taken care of. (In Maslow's world, there were no starv- ing artists.) Subsequent research suggests that the hierarchical aspect of Mas- low's theory is bogus—people pursue all of these ne eds pretty much si- multaneously. There's no question that most starving men would rather eat than transcend, but there's an awful lot of overlap in the middle. When people talk about "self-interest," they're typically invoking the Physical, Security, and Esteem layers. Sometimes Belonging gets acknowledged if the speaker is touchy-feely. Not many mar- keters or managers venture far beyond these categories. Even ap- 184 MADE TO STICK peals that seem to fall under the Aesthetic category are often really Esteem-related, but in disguise (e.g., a luxury-auto ad). There could be a very good reason that people focus on those par- ticular categories. Maybe those are the ones that truly matter. The rest of them —Self-actualization, Transcendence, and so on—do seem a bit academic. Recent research has explored this question, helping to shed light on which of Maslow's categories made peo ple care. Imagine that a company offers its employees a $1,00 0 bonus if they meet certain performance targets. There are three d ifferent ways of presenting the bonus to the employees: 1. Think of what that $1,000 means: a down payment on a new car or that new home improvement you've been wa nt- ing to make. 2. Think of the increased security of having that $1,000 in your bank account for a rainy day. 3. Think of what the $1,000 means: the company recognizes how important you are to its overall performance. I t doesn't spend money for nothing. When people are asked which positioning would appea l to them personally, most of them say No. 3. It's good for the self-esteem —and, as for No. 1 and No. 2, isn't it kind of obvious that $1,000 can be spent or saved? Most of us have no trouble at all visualizing ourselves spend- ing $1,000. (It's a bit less common to find people who like to visualize themselves saving.) Here's the twist, though: When people are asked which is the best positioning for other people (not them), they rank No. 1 most fulfill- ing, followed by No. 2. That is, we are motivated by self-esteem, but others are motivated by down payments. This single insight explains EMOTIONAL ,OJ almost everything about the way incentives are