what the game means to the two schools in- volved. The memo was three pages long. It discussed camera angles, im- pact shots, opening graphics. The heart of the memo, though, was a new way of engaging viewers who might not ordinaril y care about a college game in Corvallis, Oregon. The trick, Arledge said, was to give people enough context about the game so that they'd start to care. Other people at ABC were excited by what Arledge had written. Two days later, he was asked—at age twenty-nine, with a skimpy resume—to produce a college-football game using the guidelines in his memo. Arledge intuitively made use of Loewenstein's gap theory. How do you get people interested in a topic? You point out a gap in their knowledge. But what if they lack so much knowledge about, say, the Georgia Bulldogs, that they've got more of an abyss than a gap? In that case, you have to fill in enough knowledge to make the abyss into a gap. Arledge set the scene, showed the local fans, panned across the campus. He talked up the emotions, the rivalries, the histories. By the 92 MADE TO STICK time the game started, some viewers had begun to care who won. Others were riveted. Arledge's next assignment was to take over a series that was even- tually renamed Wide World of Sports. The show introduced Ameri- cans to a variety of sports events they may never have seen before: the Tour de France, the Le Mans auto races, rodeo championships, ski races, and soccer matches. In covering these events, Arledge used the same philosophy he'd pioneered for the NCAA: Set the context and give people enough backstory that they start to care about the gaps in their knowledge. Who's going to falter during the grueling twenty- four-hour Le Mans? Will the teacher turned barrel r acer win the championship? What the heck is a yellow card? Arledge died in 2002. During his career, he became the head of ABC Sports and later ABC News. He founded the Wide World of Sports, Monday Night Football, 20/20, and Nightline. He won thirty- six Emmys. The tool kit he developed for NCAA football stood the test of time. The way to get people to care is to p rovide context. Today that seems obvious, because these techniques have become ubiqui- tous. But this avalanche of context started because a twenty-nine- year-old wrote a memo about how to make college foo tball more interesting. Many teachers use some version of the Arledge tool kit to prime their students' interest. Some label the strategy "advanced organiz- ers." The idea is that to engage students in a new topic you should start by highlighting some things they already know. An earth-science teacher might ask her students to bring in pictures of an earthquake's devastation, as a way of leading up to a discussion of plate tectonics. Alternatively, the teacher can set the context, a la Arledge, so that stu- dents start to become interested. A chemistry teacher might lead into the periodic table of elements by discussing Mendeleyev and his long, passionate quest to organize the elements. In this way, the peri- odic table emerges from within the context of a sort of detective story. Knowledge gaps create interest. But to prove that the knowledge UNEXPECTED 93 gaps exist, it may be necessary to highlight some knowledge first. "Here's what you know. Now here's what you're missi ng." Alterna- tively, you can set context so people care what comes next. It's no ac- cident that mystery novelists and crossword-puzzle writers give us clues. When we feel that we're close to the solution of a puzzle, cu- riosity takes over and propels us to the finish. Treasure maps, as shown in the movies, are vague. T hey show a few key landmarks and a big X where the treasure is. Usually the ad- venturer knows just enough to find the first landmark, which becomes the first step in a long journey toward the treasure. If treasure maps were produced on MapQuest.com, with door-to-door di rections, it would kill the adventure-movie genre. There is value in sequencing in- formation—not dumping a stack of information on som eone at once but dropping a clue, then another clue, then another. This method of communication resembles flirting more than lecturing. Unexpected ideas, by opening a knowledge gap, tease and flirt. They mark a big red X on something that needs to be discovered but don't necessarily tell you how to get there. And, as we'll see, a red X of spectacular size can end up driving the actions of thousands of peo- ple for many years. Walking on the Moon and Radios in Pockets In the rubble of Tokyo after World War II, a young company, later named Sony, struggled to stay in business. It attracted a handful of smart scientists and engineers, but its first innovation, an electric rice cooker, was a failure. Initially, Sony survived by repairing shortwave radios. Around this time, Masaru Ibuka, Sony's lead technologist, became intrigued by transistors, which had recently been invented by a team at Bell Laboratories. Ibuka craved a "substantial" project to motivate his team of fifty scientists and engineers, and he saw tremendous promise in transistors. But when he bid to license the technology from 94 MADE TO STICK Bell Labs, the Japanese Ministry of Trade and Indus try denied the li- cense. It was skeptical of the young company's ability to manage such a cutting-edge technology. In 1953, Ibuka secured permission to license transistors. He had a vision for a radio that would be based on transistors. The advantage of a transistor radio was obvious to engineers; it would free radios from the big vacuum tubes that made them so bulky and unreliable. Bell Labs told Ibuka that it didn't think a "transistor radio" was possible. His engineers began to pursue the vision anyway. Let's pause here for a moment to put ourselves in Ibuka's shoes. Your company has been struggling, and you've got a team of brilliant people whom you need to inspire. You have the potential to lead them in one hundred different directions —rice cook ers or radios or telephones or whatever else R & D could dream up. B ut you're con- vinced that the idea of a transistor-based radio is the most promising path. Your core message, then, is the dream of a transistor radio. How do you make this message unexpected? How do you engage the cu- riosity and interest of your team? The concept of a "transistor radio" is probably not enough, in and of itself, to motivate your team. It's fo- cused more on technology than on value. A transistor radio—so what? What about tapping into some of the classic managerial themes? Competition: "Sony will beat Bell Labs in making a transistor radio work." Quality: "Sony will be the world's most respected manufac- turer of radios." Innovation: "Sony will create the most advanced ra- dios in the world." Here's the idea Ibuka proposed to his team: a "pocketable radio." It's hard, in retrospect, to comprehend the hubris of that idea — how utterly unexpected, how preposterous, it