rejected the following subtitle for this book: "They Laughed 178 MADE TO STICK When We Wrote This Book. But When They Woke Up in a n Ice- Filled Bathtub...") Caples helped establish mail-order advertising, the forerunner of the modern infomercial. In mail-order advertising, unlike most other forms of advertising, advertisers know exactly how well an ad works. Say there's an ad for a "stock-picking guide" in a newspaper or a mag- azine. If you want to order the stock-picking guide, you send off a check to the address listed in the ad. But each version of an ad lists a slightly different address, so when your order shows up at a particular address the marketer knows precisely which ad generated the sale. Contrast mail-order ads with a classic consumer pro duct like Crest. Why does someone buy a tube of Crest? Is it because of the new TV ads? Or was it the discount price at retail? Or the fancy new package design? Or the fact that Mom always used Crest? Or that it was the only brand in stock that day? Marketers have surprisingly little ability to tell. Because mail-order advertising is so transparent, it's essentially a laboratory for assessing motivational appeals. What makes people care? Ask a direct-mail copywriter. And John Caples is often cited as the greatest copywriter of all time. He says, "First and foremost, try to get self-interest into every headline you write. Make your headline suggest to readers that here is something they want. This rule is so fundamental that it would seem obvious. Yet the rule is violated every day by scores of writers." Caples's ads get self-interest into their headlines by promising huge benefits for trivial costs: * You Can Laugh at Money Worries if You Follow Thi s Sim- ple Plan * Give Me 5 Days and I'll Give You a Magnetic Personality ... Let Me Prove It—Free * The Secret of How to Be Taller EMOTIONAL 179 * How You Can Improve Your Memory in One Evening * Retire at 55 Caples says companies often emphasize features when they should be emphasizing benefits. "The most frequent reason for un- successful advertising is advertisers who are so full of their own ac- complishments (the world's best seed!) that they forget to tell us why we should buy (the world's best lawn!)." An old advertising maxim says you've got to spell out the benefit of the benefit. In other words, people don't buy quarter-inch drill bits. They buy quarter-inch holes so they can hang their children's pictures. We get uncomfortable looking at Caples's handiwork: Many of his ads are shady. Deceptive. The manufacturers of the Magnetic Per- sonality Kit may enjoy a conscience-free existence, but most of us as- pire to a working relationship with the truth. So what's the nonadvertising, nonschlocky takeaway from the Caples techniques? The first lesson is not to overlook self-interest. Jerry Weissman, a former TV producer and screenwriter who now coaches CEOs in how to deliver speeches, says that you shouldn't dance around the appeal to self-interest. He says that the WIIFY— "what's in it for you," pronounced whiffy—should be a central aspect of every speech. Weissman notes that some people resist spelling out the message. "But my audiences aren't stupid," he quotes the resisters. "They might even feel insulted if I spell it out for them!" For an audience that may be distracted, though, spelling it out has value: "Even if it takes them just a few seconds to connect the dots between the feature you describe and the implied benefit, by the time they catch up, you will have moved on to your next point, and they probably won't have time to absorb the benefit... or the next point." Teachers are all too familiar with the student refrain "How are we ever going to use this?" In other words, what's in it for me? If the 180 MADE TO STICK WIIFY was that algebra made students better at video games, would any teacher hesitate to say so? Does any teacher do ubt that students would pay more attention? If you've got self-interest on your side, don't bury it. Don't talk around it. Even subtle tweaks can make a difference. It's important, Caples says, to keep the self in self-interest: "Don't say, 'People will enjoy a sense of security when they use Goodyear Ti res.' Say, 'You enjoy a sense of security when you use Goodyear Tir es.'" Of course, there are less obnoxious, less overt ways to appeal to self-interest than those promoted by mail-order ads . To explore this, we'll start with a rather odd study conducted in Te mpe, Arizona. Cable TV in Tempe In 1982, psychologists conducted a study on persuasion with a group of homeowners in Tempe, Arizona. The homeowners were v isited by stu- dent volunteers who asked them to fill out surveys for a class project. At the time, cable TV was just starting to appear—i t was still unfa- miliar to most people. The research study was designed to compare the success of two different approaches to educating the homeowners about the potential benefits of cable TV. One group of homeowners was presented with some information about why cable might be worthwhile: CATV will provide a broader entertainment and infor mational service to its subscribers. Used properly, a person can plan in ad- vance to enjoy events offered. Instead of spending money on the babysitter and gas, and putting up with the hassles of going out, more time can be spent at home with family, alone, or with friends. The second group of homeowners was asked to imagine them- selves in a detailed scenario: EMOTIONAL 181 Take a moment and imagine how CATV will provide you with a broader entertainment and informational service. When you use it properly, you will be able to plan in advance which of the events offered you wish to enjoy. Take a moment and think of how, in- stead of spending money on the babysitter and gas, and then hav- ing to put up with the hassles of going out, you will be able to spend your time at home, with your family, alone, or with your friends. Some readers have said that at first they didn't see any difference be- tween the two appeals. The difference is subtle. But go back and count up the number of times the word "you" appears in each appeal. In a sense, the study was a more elaborate version of Caples's ad- vice to avoid talking about abstract benefits ("Peo ple will enjoy a sense of security when they use Goodyear Tires") an d focus on per- sonal benefits ("You enjoy a sense of security when you use Goodyear Tires"). The Arizona study, though, took it a step further. It asked people to visualize the feeling of security they would get by using Goodyear tires. The homeowners filled out a questionnaire for the students and said goodbye. They thought they were finished with the research project, but the researchers still had another stage to complete. A month after the survey was conducted, cable TV arri ved in Tempe. The local cable company approached the homeowners for