other key villains in the book that the Stanford stu- dents don't have to wrestle with. The first is decision paralysis—the anxiety and irrationality that can emerge from excessive choice or ambiguous situations. Think about the students who missed both a fantastic lecture and a great film because they couldn't decide which one was better, or how hard it was for Jeff Hawkins, the leader of the Palm Pilot development group, to get his team to focus on a few is- sues rather than on many. To beat decision paralysis, communicators have to do the hard work of finding the core. Lawyers must stress one or two points in their closing arguments, not ten. A teacher's lesson plans may contain fifty concepts to share with her students, but in order to be effective that teacher must devote most of her efforts to making the most criti- cal two or three stick. Managers must share proverb s —"Names, names, and names" or "THE low-fare airline" —that h elp employees wring decisions out of ambiguous situations. The archvillain of sticky ideas, as you know by now, is the Curse of Knowledge. The Stanford students didn't face the Curse of Knowledge because the data on crime was brand-new to them —th ey were more akin to reporters trying to avoid burying the lead on a news story than to experts who have forgotten what it's like not to know something. The Curse of Knowledge is a worthy adversary, because in some EPILOGUE 245 sense it's inevitable. Getting a message across has two stages: the An- swer stage and the Telling Others stage. In the Answer stage, you use your expertise to arrive at the idea that you want to share. Doctors study for a decade to be capable of giving the Answer. Business man- agers may deliberate for months to arrive at the Answer. Here's the rub: The same factors that worked to your advantage in the Answer stage will backfire on you during the Telling Others stage. To get the Answer, you need expertise, but you can't dissociate ex- pertise from the Curse of Knowledge. You know things that others don't know, and you can't remember what it was like not to know those things. So when you get around to sharing the Answer, you'll tend to communicate as if your audience were you. You'll stress the scads of statistics that were pivotal in arriving at the Answer—and, like the Stanford students, you'll find that no one remembers them afterward. You'll share the punch line—the over- arching truth that emerged from months of study and analysis —and, like the CEO who stresses "maximizing shareholder v alue" to his frontline employees, no one will have a clue how your punch line re- lates to the day-to-day work. There is a curious disconnect between the amount of time we in- vest in training people how to arrive at the Answer and the amount of time we invest in training them how to Tell Others. It's easy to gradu- ate from medical school or an MBA program without e ver taking a class in communication. College professors take dozens of courses in their areas of expertise but none on how to teach. A lot of engineers would scoff at a training program about Telling Others. Business managers seem to believe that, once they've clicked through a PowerPoint presentation showcasing their conclusions, they've successfully communicated their ideas. What they've done is share data. If they're good speakers, they may even have created an enhanced sense, among their employees and peers, that they are "de- cisive" or "managerial" or "motivational." But, like the Stanford stu- dents, the surprise will come when they realize that nothing they've 246 EPILOGUE said had impact. They've shared data, but they haven't created ideas that are useful and lasting. Nothing stuck. Making an Idea Stick: The Communication Framework For an idea to stick, for it to be useful and lasting, it's got to make the audience: 1. Pay attention 2. Understand and remember it 3. Agree/Believe 4. Care 5. Be able to act on it This book could have been organized around these five steps, but there's a reason they were reserved for the conclusion. The Curse of Knowledge can easily render this framework useless. When an expert asks, "Will people understand my idea?," her answer will be Yes, be- cause she herself understands. ("Of course, my people will under- stand 'maximizing shareholder value!'") When an expert asks, "Will people care about this?," her answer will be Yes, because she herself cares. Think of the Murray Dranoff Duo Piano people , who said, "We exist to protect, preserve, and promote the music of the duo piano." They were shocked when that statement didn't arouse the same passion in others that it did in them. The SUCCESs checklist is a substitute for the framework above, and its advantage is that it's more tangible and less subject to the Curse of Knowledge. In fact, if you think back across the chapters you've read, you'll notice that the framework matches up nicely: 1. Pay attention: UNEXPECTED 2. Understand and remember it: CONCRETE EPILOGUE 247 3. Agree/Believe: CREDIBLE 4. Care: EMOTIONAL 5. Be able to act on it: STORY So, rather than guess about whether people will understand our ideas, we should ask, "Is it concrete?" Rather than speculate about whether people will care, we should ask, "Is it emotional? Does it get out of Maslow's basement? Does it force people to p ut on an Analyti- cal Hat or allow them to feel empathy?" (By the way, "Simple" is not on the list above because it's mainly about the Answer stage—honing in on the core of your message and making it as compact as possible. But Simple messages help throughout the process, especially in help- ing people to understand and act.) The SUCCESs checklist, then, is an ideal tool for d ealing with communication problems. Let's look at some common s ymptoms of communication problems and how we can respond to them. Problems getting people to pay attention to a message symptom: "No one is listening to me" or "They seem bored—they hear this stuff all the time." solution-. Surprise them by breaking their guessing machines—tell them something that is uncommon sense. (The lead is , There will be no school next Thursday! Nordies gift-wrap packages from Macy's!) symptom: "I lost them halfway through" or "Their at tention was wa- vering toward the end." 248 EPILOGUE solution: Create curiosity gaps—tell people just en ough for them to realize the piece that's missing from their knowledge. (Remember Roone Arledge's introductions to college football games, setting the context for the rivalry.) Or create mysteries or puzzles that are slowly solved over the course of the communication. (Like the professor who started each class with a mystery, such as the one about Saturn's rings.) Problems getting people to understand and remember symptom: "They always nod their heads when I explai n it to them, but it never seems to translate into action." solution: Make the message simpler and use concrete language. Use what people already know as a way to make your intentions clearer, as with a generative