the mystery sandwich-diet guy— and also to find out whose sandwiches he had been eating. It could easily have turned out that Jared had been dining at Flo's Sub Shop. The intern wasn't exactly sure what he was supposed to do. His tentative plan was to show up in Bloomington, look through the Yel- low Pages, and start dropping by the town's sub shops. Fortunately for the intern, the operation never became that complex. The first sub shop the intern visited was a Subway franchise close to campus. He launched into his description of the mystery eater, and about one sen- tence into the description the counter worker said, "Oh, that's Jared. He comes here every day." The intern returned victorious. Jared was real, and he'd shed pounds by eating at Subway. The agency thought, We've got a great story on our hands. And that's when the Jared story hit another hurdle. Ad agency president Krause called Subway's marketing director to unveil the tale of Jared, but the marketing director wasn't impressed. He had just started his job at Subway, having previously worked for another fast-food company. "I've seen that before," he said. "Fast foods can't do healthy." The marketing director preferred to la unch a campaign focused on the taste of Subway's sandwiches. To satisfy Krause, though, the director ran the Jar ed campaign idea by Subway's lawyers. The lawyers, predictably, said a Jared cam- paign couldn't be done. It would appear to be making a medical claim that might create a liability, blah blah blah. The only way to avoid any liability was to run disclaimers like "We don't recommend this diet. See your doctor first." The idea seemed dead. But Krause and Coad weren't r eady to STORIES 221 give up. Subway, like many franchise-based firms, runs ad campaigns at two levels: national and regional. While the national Subway office had vetoed Jared, some regional Subway franchisees expressed inter- est in the story and were willing to run the ads using regional adver- tising money. Then came another hurdle: Franchisees didn't usually pay to make the actual commercials; they just paid to run the commercials in their regions. The commercials were generally funded by the na- tional office. So who would pay for the Jared commercials? Krause decided to make the spots for free. He said, "For the first and only time in my career, I gave the go-ahead to shoot an ad that we weren't going to be paid for." The ad first ran on January 1, 2000 —just in time f or the annual epidemic of diet-related New Year's resolutions. It showed Jared in front of his home. "This is Jared," the announcer said. "He used to weigh 425 pounds"—we see a photo of Jared in his old 60-inch-waist pants—"but today he weighs 180 thanks to what he ca lls the Subway diet." The announcer describes Jared's meal plan, then concludes, "That, combined with a lot of walking, worked for J ared. We're not saying this is for everyone. You should check with your doctor before starting any diet program. But it worked for Jared." The next day, Krause said, the phones started ringing in the morn- ing and didn't let up. USA Today called, ABC and Fox News called. On the third day, Oprah called. "I've talked to a lot of marketers over the years who wanted to get media attention" Krause said. "No one ever got anywhere by lavishing calls on Oprah. The only time I've suc- ceeded in my career with Oprah was with Jared, and Oprah called us." A few days later, Subway's national office called Krause, asking if the ad could be aired nationally. In 1999, Subway's sales were flat. In 2000, sales jumped 18 percent, and they jumped another 16 percent in 2001. At the time, other (much smaller) sandwich chains such as Schlotzsky's and Quiznos were growing at about 7 pe rcent per year. 222 MADE TO STICK "The Jared story has a morsel of simulation value. It makes it rela- tively easy to imagine what it would be like to embrace the Sub- way diet—the lunch order, the dinner order, the wal king in between. But this story is not so much a flight simulator as it is a pep talk. This huge guy lost 245 pounds on a diet that he invented ! Wow! The story provides a good kick in the pants for anyone who's been struggling to lose that last 10 pounds. Like the nurse story that opened the chapter, this story, too, has emotional resonance. Even skinny people who aren't interested in di- eting will be inspired by Jared's tale. He fought big odds and pre- vailed through perseverance. And this is the second major payoff that stories provide: inspiration. Inspiration drives action, as does simula- tion. By the way, note how much better this campaign functions than the "7 Under 6" campaign. Both campaigns are mining the same turf—they both highlight the availability of nutrit ious, low-fat sand- wiches. They both hold out the promise of weight loss. But one cam- paign was a modest success and one was a sensation. What we have argued in this book—and we hope we've made you a believer by now—is that you could have predicted in advance that Jared would be the winner in these two campaigns. Note how well the Jared story does on the SUCCESs checklist: * It's simple: Eat subs and lose weight. (It may be oversimpli- fied, frankly, since the meatball sub with extra mayo won't help you lose weight.) * It's unexpected: A guy lost a ton of weight by eating fast food! This story violates our schema of fast food, a schema that's more consistent with the picture of a fat Jared than a skinny Jared. * It's concrete: Think of the oversized pants, the massive loss STORIES 223 of girth, the diet composed of particular sandwiches. It's much more like an Aesop fable than an abstraction. It's credible: It has the same kind of antiauthority truthful- ness that we saw with the Pam Laffin antismoking campaign. The guy who wore 60-inch pants is giving us diet ad vice! * It's emotional: We care more about an individual, Jared, than about a mass. And it taps into profound areas of Mas- low's hierarchy—it's about a guy who reached his po tential with the help of a sub shop. * It's a story: Our protagonist overcomes big odds to triumph. It inspires the rest of us to do the same. By contrast, let's size up "7 Under 6" on the checklist. It's simple, but notice that it has a much less compelling core message. Its core message is "We've got a variety of low-fat sandwiches," versus Jared's "Eat Subway, lose weight, change your life." The first message sells drill bits; the second tells you how to hang your kid's picture. "7 Under 6" is far less unexpected. Jared's story packs a wallop because it violates the powerful schema that fast food is fatty. If "7 Under 6" is attacking the same schema, it makes the point much more tangentially. "7 Under 6" isn't concrete. Numbers aren't concrete. It's credible only