were classified into seven major categories. One category suggested ways to reduce de- mand for parking (e.g., by raising parking fees), and another sug- gested ways to use parking space more efficiently (e.g., by creating spaces for "Compact Cars Only"). The average participant failed to identify more than 70 percent of the best solutions identified by an expert panel. This failure is under- standable; we wouldn't expect any one person to be able to generate a database worth of solutions. However, when the individuals were asked to assess their own performance, they predicted that they had identified 75 percent. They thought they got the majority, but in real- ity they'd missed them. If people believe they know everything, it's hard to make the gap theory work. Fortunately, there are strategies for combating overcon- fidence. For instance, Nora Ephron's journalism teacher prevented overconfidence by causing the students' schemas of journalism to fail. He made them commit to their preconceived ideas and then pulled the rug out from under them. Making people commit to a prediction can help prevent overcon- UNEXPECTED 89 fidence. Eric Mazur, a physics professor at Harvard , came up with a pedagogical innovation known as "concept testing." Every so often in his classes, Mazur will pose a conceptual question and then ask his students to vote publicly on the answer. The simple act of commit- ting to an answer makes the students more engaged and more curious about the outcome. Overconfident people are more likely to recognize a knowledge gap when they realize that others disagree with them. Nancy Lowry and David Johnson studied a teaching environment where fifth and sixth graders were assigned to interact on a topic. With one group, the discussion was led in a way that fostered a consensus. With the sec- ond group, the discussion was designed to produce d isagreements about the right answer. Students who achieved easy consensus were less interested in the topic, studied less, and were less likely to visit the library to get additional information. The most telling difference, though, was re- vealed when teachers showed a special film about the discussion topic —during recess! Only 18 percent of the consen sus students missed recess to see the film, but 45 percent of the students from the disagreement group stayed for the film. The thirst to fill a knowledge gap—to find out who was right—can be more powerful than the thirst for slides and jungle gyms. Gaps Start with Knowledge If curiosity arises from knowledge gaps, we might assume that when we know more, we'll become less curious because there are fewer gaps in our knowledge. But Loewenstein argues that the opposite is true. He says that as we gain information we are more and more likely to focus on what we don't know. Someone who knows t he state capi- tals of 17 of 50 states may be proud of her knowledge. But someone who knows 47 may be more likely to think of herself as not knowing 3 capitals. 90 MADE TO STICK Some topics naturally highlight gaps in our knowled ge. Human- interest stories are fascinating because we know what it's like to be human—but we don't know what it's like to have cert ain dramatic ex- periences. How does it feel to win an Olympic medal? How does it feel to win the Lotto? How did it feel to be conjoi ned twins Chang and Eng Bunker (each of whom not only married but had ten chil- dren . . . which sparks several additional lines of questioning)? Gossip is popular because we know a lot about some people but there's some information that we lack. We don't gossip about passing acquaintances. Celebrity gossip is particularly tantalizing. We have a sense of who Tiger Woods and Julia Roberts are, but we crave the missing pieces —their quirks, their romantic strugg les, their secret vices. Curiosity comes from gaps in our knowledge. But wha t if there's not much knowledge there to begin with? In the 1960 s, an upstart television network, American Broadcasting Corporati on, signed a contract to televise NCAA football games. College sports is a classic insiders' topic. With the exception of a fringe of die-hard sports junkies, most fans usually care only about their own schools' teams. But ABC could show only a few games each week in ea ch region. For ABC's bet to pay off, it needed to make viewers care about games that didn't involve their home teams. How do you go about making viewers in College Station, Texas, care about the Michigan vs. Ohio State matchup? A twenty-nine- year-old named Roone Arledge, whose previous responsibilities primarily involved assigning crews to cover baseball, boxing, and football games, wrote a memo suggesting ways to improve the cover- age of college football games. Arledge saw ample room for improvement. Sportscasters typically set up their cameras, focused on the field, and waited for something to happen in front of them. They ignored everything else —the fans, the color, the pageantry. "It was like looking out on the Grand Canyon through a peephole in a door," Arledge said. UNEXPECTED 91 One Saturday afternoon, after procrastinating all morning, he sat down to type out a proposal to his bosses: Heretofore, television has done a remarkable job of bringing the game to the viewer—now we are going to take the vie wer to the game! ... After our opening commercial billboards, instead of dissolving to the usual pan shots of the field we will have pre-shot film of the campus and the stadium so we can orient the viewer. He must know he is in Columbus, Ohio, where the town is football mad; or that he is part of a small but wildly enthusiastic crowd in Cor- vallis, Oregon. He must know what the surrounding country and campus look like, how many other people are watching this game with him, how the people dress at football games in this part of the country, and what the game means to the two schools in- volved. The memo was three pages long. It discussed camera angles, im- pact shots, opening graphics. The heart of the memo, though, was a new way of engaging viewers who might not ordinaril y care about a college game in Corvallis, Oregon. The trick, Arledge said, was to give people enough context about the game so that they'd start to care. Other people at ABC were excited by what Arledge had written. Two days later, he was asked—at age twenty-nine, with a skimpy resume—to produce a college-football game using the guidelines in his memo. Arledge intuitively made use of Loewenstein's gap theory. How do you get people interested in a topic? You point out a gap in their knowledge. But what if they lack so much knowledge about, say, the Georgia Bulldogs, that they've got more of an abyss than a gap? In that case, you have to fill in enough knowledge to make the abyss into a gap. Arledge set the scene, showed the local fans, panned across the campus. He talked up the emotions, the rivalries, the histories. By the 92 MADE TO STICK time the game started, some