says, "I've always been a believer that if I've got two hours in which to write a story, the best investment I can make is to spend the first hour and forty-five minutes of it getting a good lead, because after that everything will come easily." So if finding a good lead makes everything else easy, why would a journalist ever fail to come up with one? A common mistake re- porters make is that they get so steeped in the details that they fail to see the message's core —what readers will find impo rtant or interest- ing. The longtime newspaper writer Ed Cray, a professor of commu- nications at the University of Southern California, has spent almost thirty years teaching journalism. He says, "The lon ger you work on a story, the more you can find yourself losing direction. No detail is too small. You just don't know what your story is anymore." This problem of losing direction, of missing the central story, is so common that journalists have given it its own name: Burying the lead. "Burying the lead" occurs when the journalist lets the most im- portant element of the story slip too far down in the story structure. The process of writing a lead —and avoiding the tem ptation to bury it—is a helpful metaphor for the process of finding the core. Finding the core and writing the lead both involve forced prioritiza- tion. Suppose you're a wartime reporter and you can telegraph only one thing before the line gets cut, what would it be? There's only one lead, and there's only one core. You must choose. Forced prioritization is really painful. Smart people recognize the value of all the material. They see nuance, multiple perspectives — and because they fully appreciate the complexities of a situation, they're often tempted to linger there. This tendency to gravitate SIMPLE 33 toward complexity is perpetually at war with the need to prioritize. This difficult quest—the need to wrestle priorities out of complexity— was exactly the situation that James Carville faced in the Clinton cam- paign of 1992. "If You Say Three Things, You Don't Say Anything." A political campaign is a breeding ground of decision angst. If you think your organization has problems, imagine this challenge: You must build a nationwide organization from scratch, using primarily unpaid and largely unskilled workers. You've got about a year to pull the team together and line up an endless supply of doughnuts. Every- one in the organization needs to sing from the same hymnal, but you don't have much time to rehearse the choir. And the media prod you to sing a new song every day. To make matters worse, you must con- stantly contend with opponents who will seize on every errant word. Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign was a classic example of sticky ideas at work in a difficult environment. Not only did the campaign have the normal set of complexities, Clinton himself added a few new wrinkles. First, there were the "bimbo eruptions," which need not be reexamined here. Second, Clinton was a policy wonk by nature, which meant that he was inclined to pontificate on virtually every issue that he was asked about, instead of staying focused on a few key principles. As his key political adviser, James Carville had to cope with this complexity. One day, struggling to maintain his-focus, he wrote three phrases on a whiteboard for all the campaign workers to see. One of the phrases on the impromptu list was "It's the economy, stupid." This message would become the core of Clinton's successful cam- paign. The word "stupid" was added as a taunt to the campaign workers 34 MADE TO STICK themselves, reminding them not to lose focus on what was important. "It was simple and it was self-effacing," Carville explained. "I was try- ing to say, 'Let's don't be too clever here, don't come down here thinking we're too smart. Let's just remember the basics.'" The need for focus extended to Bill Clinton himself, perhaps es- pecially to Clinton himself. At one point, Clinton was frustrated that he'd been advised to stop talking about balanced budgets despite the fact that Ross Perot, the third-party candidate for president in 1992, was getting positive attention for his stand on the balanced budget. Clinton said, "I've been talking about these things for two years, why should I stop talking about them now because Perot is in?" Clinton's advisers had to tell him, "There has to be message triage. If you say three things, you don't say anything." "It's the economy, stupid" was the lead of the Clinton story—and it was a good one, because in 1992 the U.S. economy was mired in a recession. But if "It's the economy, stupid" is the lead, then the need for a balanced budget can't also be the lead. Carville had to stop Clinton from burying the lead. Decision Paralysis Why is prioritizing so difficult? In the abstract, it doesn't sound so tough. You prioritize important goals over less important goals. You prioritize goals that are "critical" ahead of goals that are "beneficial." But what if we can't tell what's "critical" and what's "beneficial"? Sometimes it's not obvious. We often have to make decisions between one "unknown" and another. This kind of complexity can be paralyz- ing. In fact, psychologists have found that people can be driven to ir- rational decisions by too much complexity and uncertainty. In 1954, the economist L. J. Savage described what he perceived as a basic rule of human decision-making. He called it the "sure- thing principle." He illustrated it with this example: A businessman is SIMPLE 35 thinking about buying a piece of property. There's an election com- ing up soon, and he initially thinks that its outcome could be relevant to the attractiveness of the purchase. So, to clarify his decision, he thinks through both scenarios. If the Republican wins, he decides, he'll buy. If the Democrat wins, he'll do the same. Seeing that he'd buy in either scenario, he goes forward with the purchase, despite not knowing the outcome. This decision seems sensible—n ot many peo- ple would quibble with Savage's logic. Two psychologists quibbled. Amos Tversky and Eldar Shafir later published a paper proving that the "sure-thing principle" wasn't always a sure thing. They uncovered situations where the mere exis- tence of uncertainty seemed to alter how people made decisions — even when the uncertainty was irrelevant to the outcome, as with the businessman's purchase. For instance, imagine that you're in college and you've just completed an important final exam a couple of weeks before the Christmas holidays. You'd been studying for this exam for weeks, because it's in a subject that's important to your fu- ture career. You've got to wait two days to get the exam results back. Mean- while, you see an opportunity to purchase a vacation during the holi- days to Hawaii at a bargain-basement price. Here ar e your three options: You can buy the vacation today, pass on it today, or pay a five- dollar fee to lock in the price for two days, which would allow you to make your decision after you