figured out how to do that. The Truth The commercial starts with a shot of a city street in New York City. The footage is video, not film —it's a bit dark, a bit unprofessional. It feels like a documentary, not a commercial. A caption flashes at the bottom of the screen: "Outside the headquarters of a major tobacco company." An eighteen-wheeler pulls up in front of the building, and a group of teenagers jump out. The teens begin to unload lo ng white sacks marked "Body Bag." They stack the bags on top of one another near the edge of the building. As the commercial progresses, the pile of body bags gets bigger and bigger. By the end of the ad, there are hun- dreds of bags in the pile. One of the teens shouts at the building through a megaphone, "Do you know how many people t obacco kills every day?" The daily death toll is revealed to be 1,800—the number of body bags the teens have piled up in front of the tobacco head- quarters. This ad is part of a series of ads called the Truth campaign. The campaign was launched by the American Legacy Founda tion, which was formed in November 1998 after forty-six state attorneys-general settled a lawsuit against major U.S. tobacco companies. You can't watch the Truth ads without getting angry at tobacco companies. After the ads began airing, Philip Morri s invoked a spe- cial Big Tobacco "anti-vilification" clause to have the spots yanked from the air. The tobacco companies inserted this clause in the set- 170 MADE TO STICK tlements of a number of antitobacco lawsuits; it gives them some veto power over how the settlement money can be spent on antismoking advertising. "We felt that [the Truth ads] are not consistent with the focus and mission of the American Legacy Foundation," said Carolyn Levy, Philip Morris's senior vice president for youth-smoking preven- tion, in reference to the censorship effort. One translation of this complaint: The ads were working. Meanwhile, another series of antismoking ads started to run. As part of the tobacco settlement, Philip Morris agreed to air its own se- ries of antismoking ads. The Philip Morris tagline was "Think. Don't Smoke." Two campaigns were launched, almost simultaneously, with two different approaches. This juxtaposition set up an exciting, head-to- head horse race in the marketplace of ideas. In fact, in June 2002, an article in the American Journal of Public Health surveyed 10,692 teenagers to compare the Truth campaign with "Think. Don't Smoke." It turns out that some horses run better than others. When kids were asked to recall any antitobacco advertising they had seen, the Truth campaign was remembered spontaneously by 22 p ercent of them; the Think campaign by 3 percent. What's particularly striking about this statistic is that when the kids were prompted with informa- tion from the campaigns, more than 70 percent of them remembered seeing both. In other words, teens had seen both ads on TV, but one stuck better than the other. Something about the Tr uth campaign was spontaneously memorable. Memory is important, but it's only the first step. What about ac- tion? When the survey asked kids whether they were likely to smoke a cigarette during the next year, those who were exposed to the Truth campaign were 66 percent less likely to smoke. Thos e who were ex- posed to "Think. Don't Smoke" were 36 percent more likely to smoke! Tobacco execs must have taken the news quite hard. It wasn't just surveys that registered the difference. A study meas- ured teen smoking in Florida, where the Truth campaign had its EMOTIONAL 171 debut, versus the rest of the country. After two years of the campaign, smoking among high school students dropped by 18 pe rcent and among middle school students by 40 percent. (About half of this de- cline may have been associated with a rise in cigarette taxes during the time of the study.) What happened here? It's the Save the Children example re- visited. What is the "Think. Don't Smoke" campaign about? Er, thinking. It's the Analytical Hat. Remember what happened with contributions to Rokia when donors were asked to think analytically before donating? What's the Truth campaign about? It's about tapping into anti- authority resentment, the classic teenage emotion. Once, teens smoked to rebel against The Man. Thanks to the ingenious framing of the Truth campaign—which paints a picture of a duplicitous Bi g Tobacco—teens now rebel against The Man by not smoking. The Truth campaign isn't about rational decision-making; it's about rebellion. And it made a lot of teens care enough to do some- thing. In this case, that something was nothing. Semantic Stretch and the Power of Association So far we've been talking about what you might expect from a chap- ter on emotion — complex, fundamental human emotion s like em- pathy (Rokia) and anger (the Truth). But the main question of this chapter is even more basic: How do we make people c are about our messages? The good news is that to make people care about our ideas we don't have to produce emotion from an absence of emotion. In fact, many ideas use a sort of piggybacking strategy, associating them- selves with emotions that already exist. Consider the following sentence from a movie review: "Rasho- mon can be seen as a cinematic extension of Einstein's theory of rela- tivity." Rashomon is a classic 1950 film by the Japanese director Akira 172 MADE TO STICK Kurosawa. In the film, four different characters describe the same event—a murder and rape—from their own perspectives . The movie is told in a series of flashbacks, as each of the characters recounts his or her version of events. But the characters' tales are self-serving and contradictory, and at the end of the movie the viewer is still uncertain about what actually happened. The movie questions t he existence of absolute truth —or, at least, our ability to uncove r it. So the movie reviewer, in the quote above, was comparing Ra- shomon's "relative truth" to Einstein's theory of relativity. But Ein- stein's theory of relativity wasn't designed to say that "everything is relative." In fact, its actual meaning was essentially the opposite. The theory was designed to explain how the laws of physics are identical in every frame of reference. From Einstein's view, things don't look un- predictable; they look surprisingly orderly. Why did the reviewer link Rashomon with relativity? This refer- ence doesn't look like an appeal to Einstein's authority; it claims that Rashomon is the cinematic "equivalent" of Einstein's theory. Instead, the analogy seems intended to create a sense of awe—when we watch Rashomon, it implies, we will be in the presence of something pro- found. The theory of relativity is borrowed, as an association, because it lends an aura of emotional resonance —profundity, a we —to the movie. The movie review above is just one example a mong thou- sands. "Relativity" becomes, in a sense, a color on the idea palette. When you want to conjure up awe, you dab your brush into "relativ- ity." Other scientific terms—the "uncertainty princ iple," "chaos