man on the moon sus- tained tens of thousands of separate individuals, in dozens of organizations, for almost a decade. These are big, powerful, sticky ideas. When we're skeptical about our ability to get people's attention, or our ability to keep people's attention, we should draw inspiration from Kennedy and Ibuka. And, on a smaller scale, from Nora Ephron's journalism teacher and Nordstrom's managers. Unexpe ctedness, in the service of core principles, can have surprising longevity. CHAPTER 3 CONCRETE One hot summer day a Fox was strolling through an o rchard. He saw a bunch of Grapes ripening high on a grape vine. "Just the thing to quench my thirst," he said. Backing up a few paces, he took a run and jumped at the grapes, just missing. Turning around again, he ran faster and jumped again. Still a miss. Again and again he jumped, until at last he gave up out of exhaustion. Walking away with his nose in the air, he said: "I am sure they are sour." It is easy to despise what you can't get. The fable above, "The Fox and the Grapes," was written by Aesop. According to Herodotus, he was a slave (though he was later freed). Aesop authored some of the stickiest stories in world history. We've all heard his greatest hits: "The Tortoise and the Hare," "The Boy Who Cried Wolf," "The Goose That La id the Golden Eggs," "The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing," and many more. If any story told in this book is still circulating a few millennia from now, odds are it will be "The Fox and the Grapes." Even English speakers who've never heard "The Fox a nd the Grapes" will recognize the phrase "sour grapes," which encapsulates CONCRETE 99 the moral of the story. Aesop's lesson has traveled the world. In Hun- gary, people say savanyu a szolo — "sour grapes" in Hungarian. In China, they say, "Grapes are sour because you canno t reach them." In Sweden, a little local color was added; the Swedish expression Surt sa raven om ronnbaren means "Sour, the fox said, about the rowan- berries." Clearly, Aesop was illustrating a universal human shortcoming. The fable would not have survived for more than 2,5 00 years if it didn't reflect some profound truth about human nature. But there are many profound truths that have not seeped into the day-to-day language and thinking of dozens of cultures. This truth is especially sticky because of the way it was encoded. The concrete images evoked by the fable—the grapes, the fox, the dismissive co mment about sour grapes—allowed its message to persist. One suspects that the life span of Aesop's ideas would have been shorter if they'd been encoded as Aesop's Helpful Suggestions — "Don't be such a bitter jerk when you fail." What the world needs is a lot more fables. On the Web, a satirical site features a "Business Buzzword Generator." Read ers can produce their own business buzzwords by combining one word each from three columns, which yields phrases like "reciproca l cost-based re- engineering," "customer-oriented visionary paradigm," and "strategic logistical values." (All of these sound eerily plausible as buzzwords, by the way.) Teachers have their own buzzwords: metaco gnitive skills, in- trinsic motivation, portfolio assessment, developmentally appropriate, thematic learning. And if you've ever talked to a d octor, we don't even have to provide examples. Our favorite from medicine: "idiopathic cardiomyopathy." "Cardiomyopathy" means something i s wrong with your heart, and "idiopathic" means "we have no idea why yours isn't working." Language is often abstract, but life is not abstract. Teachers teach students about battles and animals and books. Doctors repair prob- 100 MADE TO STICK lems with our stomachs, backs, and hearts. Companies create soft- ware, build planes, distribute newspapers; they build cars that are cheaper, faster, or fancier than last year's. Even the most abstract busi- ness strategy must eventually show up in the tangible actions of human beings. It's easier to understand those tangible actions than to understand an abstract strategy statement—just as i t's easier to under- stand a fox dissing some grapes than an abstract commentary about the human psyche. Abstraction makes it harder to understand an idea and to remem- ber it. It also makes it harder to coordinate our activities with others, who may interpret the abstraction in very different ways. Concrete- ness helps us avoid these problems. This is perhaps the most impor- tant lesson that Aesop can teach us. The Nature Conservancy For fifty years, The Nature Conservancy (TNC) has helped protect environmentally precious areas in the world using the simplest possi- ble method: It buys them. It buys land at market prices, making it off- limits to environmentally damaging uses, such as development or logging. This strategy has come to be known within TNC as "bucks and acres." It had appeal to donors and benefactors, because the re- sults of their gifts were so clear. A big gift bought a big piece of land. A small gift bought a small piece of land. As one donor commented, TNC produced "results you could walk around on." In 2002, Mike Sweeney, the COO of TNC California, was facing a big challenge. California is particularly important to TNC, because it contains so many environmentally critical areas. California is one of only five Mediterranean climate regions in the world. (The others are the fynbos of South Africa, the matorral of Chile, the kwongan of Australia, and, of course, the Mediterranean.) These Mediterranean climate zones occupy only 2 percent of the world's landmass but host CONCRETE 101 more than 20 percent of its plant species. If you want to buy environ- mentally precious land, Mediterranean climates give you a lot of bang for your buck. In 2002, Sweeney and his staff had taken a map of California and colored in the most environmentally sensitive areas, the areas worth preserving. Astonishingly, 40 percent of the map was colored. This was a non-starter: There weren't enough bucks out there to buy that many acres. Yet 9 percent of the state was classified as being in "critical dan- ger." Nine percent of California was still far too much to contemplate purchasing, but these regions were environmentally essential; TNC couldn't simply give up on them. TNC decided to implement some new approaches. "Buck s and acres" couldn't succeed with this vast quantity of land. So instead of owning the land outright, TNC would ensure that the critical areas were protected against damage. The organization would pay land- owners not to develop their land, buying what's kno wn as a "conser- vation easement." It would work with local and state governments to change policies and encourage conservation of private and public land. It would focus on important marine areas, where there was no land to buy. These new strategies made sense—TNC could protect m ore areas than it could reach through "bucks and acres." But they also had drawbacks. First, they were much less concrete to donors. Donors can't "walk around on" a favorable government regulation. Second, they were also potentially demoralizing for employees—they made progress less tangible. When TNC was focused on land deals, Sweeney said, "it was easy to