involves creativity and e xperimentation and mastery. Serving food involves a ladle. One of the soldiers who commute to Pegasus for Sund ay dinner said, "The time you are in here, you forget you're in Iraq." Lee is tap- ping into Maslow's forgotten categories—the Aesthet ic, Learning, and Transcendence needs. In redefining the mission of his mess hall, he has inspired his co-workers to create an oasis in the desert. The Popcorn Popper and Political Science Even John Caples, the mail-order copywriter, admits that there are powerful motivations outside narrow self-interest. He tells a story about a marketer who was promoting a new educational film on fire safety that was intended to help firemen. This marketer had been taught that there are three basic consumer appeals: sex, greed, and fear. The marketer's instinct was that greed would work best in this sit- uation. He came up with a couple of ideas for free giveaways that would persuade firemen to check out the film. He began calling local units to figure out which giveaway would have the most appeal. When he called, he would describe the new film and ask, "Would you like to see the film for possible purchase for your educational pro- grams?" The universal answer was an enthusiastic "Yes!" 188 MADE TO STICK The second question tested two versions of his greed appeal: "Would your firefighters prefer a large electric popcorn popper or an excellent set of chefs carving knives as a thank-you for reviewing the film?" The first two calls yielded definitive answers to this question: "Do you think we'd use a fire safety program because of some #* popcorn popper?!" The marketer stopped asking about the free gifts. Sometimes self-interest helps people care, and sometimes it backfires. What are we to make of this? The mystery deepens if we consider politics. The conventional wisdom is that voters are paragons of self-interest. If there's a proposal on the table to raise the marginal tax rate on the highest incomes, we expect rich people to vote against it and everyone else to vote for it. Actually, this conventional wisdom is wrong. There's not much evidence that public opinion can be predicted by narrow self-interest. In 1998, Donald Kinder, a professor of political science at the Uni- versity of Michigan, wrote an influential survey of thirty years of re- search on this topic. He summarizes the effects of self-interest on political views as "trifling." Trifling! Kinder writes: When faced with affirmative action, white and black Americans come to their views without calculating personal harms or bene- fits. The unemployed do not line up behind policies designed to alleviate economic distress. The medically needy are no more likely to favor government health insurance than the fully insured. Parents of children in public schools are not more likely to sup- port government aid to education than other citizens. Americans who are likely to be drafted are not more likely to oppose military intervention or escalating conflicts that are under way. Women employed outside the home do not differ from homema kers in EMOTIONAL 189 their support of policies intended to benefit women at work. On such diverse matters as racial busing for the purpose of school de- segregation, anti-drinking ordinances, mandatory college exami- nations, housing policy, bilingual education, compliance with laws, satisfaction with the resolution of legal disputes, gun control and more, self-interest turns out to be quite unimportant. These findings are bracingly counterintuitive. If people aren't supporting their own self-interest, whose interests are they support- ing? The answer is nuanced. First, self-interest does seem to matter, quite a bit, when the effects of a public policy are significant, tangi- ble, and immediate. For example, in California in 1978, a ballot ini- tiative called Proposition 13 called for a sharp reduction in property taxes in exchange for equally sharp reductions in public services such as schools, libraries, and police and fire departments. On this issue, homeowners—tired of the huge tax increases that acc ompany rising property values—voted for Proposition 13. Librarian s and firefighters, among others, voted against it. Second, self-interest shapes what we pay attention to, even if it doesn't dictate our stance. For example, on Proposition 13 homeowners and public employees were more likely to have a well-formed opinion on the initiative —ev en if their opinion was inconsistent with their personal self-interest. But self-interest isn't the whole story. Principles —equality, indi- vidualism, ideals about government, human rights, and the like— may matter to us even when they violate our immediate self-interest. We may dislike hearing the views of some fringe political group but support its right to speak because we treasure free speech. And perhaps the most important part of the story is this: "Group interest" is often a better predictor of political opinions than self- interest. Kinder says that in forming opinions people seem to ask not "What's in it for me?" but, rather, "What's in it for my group?" Our group affiliation may be based on race, class, religion, gender, re- 190 MADE TO STICK gion, political party, industry, or countless other dimensions of dif- ference. A related idea comes from James March, a professor at Stanford University, who proposes that we use two basic models to make deci- sions. The first model involves calculating consequences. We weigh our alternatives, assessing the value of each one, and we choose the al- ternative that yields us the most value. This model is the standard view of decision-making in economics classes: People are self-interested and rational. The rational agent asks, Which sofa will provide me with the greatest comfort and the best aesthetics for the price? Which polit- ical candidate will best serve my economic and social interests? The second model is quite different. It assumes that people make decisions based on identity. They ask themselves three questions: Who am I? What kind of situation is this? And what do people like me do in this kind of situation? Notice that in the second model people aren't analyzing the con- sequences or outcomes for themselves. There are no calculations, only norms and principles. Which sofa would someone like me — a Southeastern accountant—be more likely to buy? Wh ich political candidate should a Hollywood Buddhist get behind? I t's almost as if people consulted an ideal self-image: What would someone like me do? This second model of decision-making helps shed light on why the firefighters got angry about the popcorn popper . Bear in mind that the popcorn popper wasn't a bribe. If the marketer had said, "Order this film for your firehouse and I'll give you a popcorn popper for your family," clearly most people would reject the offer on ethical grounds. On the contrary, the offer was innocuous: We will give you a popcorn popper to thank you for the trouble you're taking to review the film. You can have the popper regardless of your de cision on the film. There's nothing unethical about accepting this offer. And we can go further than that: From a self-interested, value- EMOTIONAL 191 maximizing point of view, it is simply stupid to turn down this offer. If you make Decision A, you end up with a popcorn popp er.