them to the home office. Dennis had been homeless before he turned to the Doe Fund for help. During the forty-five-minute car trip, Dennis shared his story with the grant representatives. One commented, "We weren't just sit- ting around listening to a bunch of directors telling us how effective their services are; Dennis was the best ambassador that the Doe Fund could provide—he was living proof." The Doe Fund al so uses this principle internally. Every homeless man who enters the program is matched with a mentor who, two years before, was in the same situa- tion. It's worth reminding ourselves that it wasn't obvious that Laffin or Dennis would be effective authorities. Thirty years ago, an antismok- ing campaign like Laffin's would probably not have happened. In- stead, the Surgeon General would have given us a stern lecture on the dangers of smoking. Or Burt Reynolds would have extolled the virtues of a smoke-free life. A citizen of the modern world, constantly inundated with mes- sages, learns to develop skepticism about the sources of those mes- CREDIBLE 137 sages. Who's behind these messages? Should I trust them? What do they have to gain if I believe them? A commercial claiming that a new shampoo makes your hair bouncier has less credibility than hearing your best friend rave about how a new shampoo made her own hair bouncier. Well, duh. The company wants to sell you shampoo. Your friend does n't, so she gets more trust points. The takeaway is that it can be the honesty and trust- worthiness of our sources, not their status, that allows them to act as au- thorities. Sometimes antiauthorities are even better than authorities. The Power of Details We don't always have an external authority who can vouch for our message; most of the time our messages have to vouch for themselves. They must have "internal credibility." Of course, internal credibility frequently depends on what topic we're discussing: A credible math proof looks different from a credible movie review. But, surprisingly, there are some general principles for establishing internal credibility. To see these principles in action, we can again turn to urban legends. The Boyfriend's Death is a famous urban legend that begins with a couple heading out on a date in the boyfriend's car. The car runs out of gas under a tree on a deserted road. The girl suspects that the guy is faking in order to make out with her, but soon she realizes they're really stuck. The boyfriend decides to walk to the nearest house for help, and the girl stays behind. He has been gone for a long time —it feels like hours—and the girl is frightene d by a creepy scratching coming from the roof of the car, possibly the scrapings of a low-hanging tree branch. After several hours of anxious waiting, the girl gets out of the car to discover—cue the horror music!—her boyfriend, murdered and hanging from the tree above the car. His toes scrape the roof as he swings in the wind. When people pass this legend along, they always add particular details. It's always set in a specific location, which varies when it is 138 MADE TO STICK told in different parts of the country: "It happened right off Farm Road 121"; "It happened right on top of that bluff over Lake Travis." An expert on folk legends, Jan Brunvand, says that legends "acquire a good deal of their credibility and effect from their localized details." A person's knowledge of details is often a good pro xy for her expert- ise. Think of how a history buff can quickly establish her credibility by telling an interesting Civil War anecdote. But concrete details don't just lend credibility to the authorities who provide them; they lend credibility to the idea itself. The Civil War anecdote, with lots of inter- esting details, is credible in anyone's telling. By making a claim tangi- ble and concrete, details make it seem more real, more believable. Jurors and the Darth Vader Toothbrush In 1986, Jonathan Shedler and Melvin Manis, researchers at the Uni- versity of Michigan, created an experiment to simulate a trial. Sub- jects were asked to play the role of jurors and were given the transcript of a (fictitious) trial to read. The jurors were asked to assess the fitness of a mother, Mrs. Johnson, and to decide whether her seven-year-old son should remain in her care. The transcript was constructed to be closely balanced: There were eight arguments against Mrs. Johnson and eight arguments for Mrs. Johnson. All the jurors heard the same arguments. T he only difference was the level of detail in those arguments. In one experimental group, all the arguments that supported Mrs. Johnson had some vivid detail, whereas the arguments against her had no extra details; they were pal- lid by comparison. The other group heard the opposite combination. As an example, one argument in Mrs. Johnson's favor said: "Mrs. Johnson sees to it that her child washes and brushes his teeth before bedtime." In the vivid form, the argument added a d etail: "He uses a Star Wars toothbrush that looks like Darth Vader." An argument against Mrs. Johnson was: "The child we nt to school with a badly scraped arm which Mrs. Johnson had not cleaned or at- CREDIBLE 139 tended to. The school nurse had to clean the scrape." The vivid form added the detail that, as the nurse was cleaning the scrape, she spilled Mercurochrome on herself, staining her uniform red. The researchers carefully tested the arguments with and without vivid details to ensure that they had the same perceived impor- tance—the details were designed to be irrelevant to the judgment of Mrs. Johnson's worthiness. It mattered that Mrs. Johnson didn't at- tend to the scraped arm; it didn't matter that the nurse's uniform got stained in the process. But even though the details shouldn't have mattered, they did. Ju- rors who heard the favorable arguments with vivid d etails judged Mrs. Johnson to be a more suitable parent (5.8 out of 10) than did ju- rors who heard the unfavorable arguments with vivid details (4.3 out of 10). The details had a big impact. We can take comfort, perhaps, in the fact that the swing wasn't more dramatic. (If the mother's fitness had dropped from eight to two, we might have had to worry a bit about our justice system.) But the jurors did make different judgments based on irrelevant vivid de- tails. So why did the details make a difference? Th ey boosted the credibility of the argument. If I can mentally see the Darth Vader toothbrush, it's easier for me to picture the boy diligently brushing his teeth in the bathroom, which in turn reinforces the notion that Mrs. Johnson is a good mother. What we should learn from urban legends and the Mrs. Johnson trial is that vivid details boost credibility. But what should also be added is that we need to make use of truthful, core details. We need to identify details that are as compelling and human as the "Darth Vader toothbrush" but more meaningful —detai ls that sym- bolize and support our