Lee said, "As I see it, I am not just in charge of food service; I am in charge of morale." Who wouldn't want a leader like Floyd Lee? STORIES The nurse was working in the neonatal intensive-care unit, where newborns with serious health problems are treated and monitored. She'd been watching one baby in particular for sev- eral hours, and she didn't like what she was seeing. His color, a key indicator of potential problems, had been fluctuating—wavering be- tween a healthy shade of pink and a duller, more troublesome hue. Suddenly, within a matter of seconds, the baby turned a deep blue-black. The nurse's stomach fell. Others in the ICU yelled for an X-ray technician and a doctor. The gathering medical team was operating on the assumption that the baby's lung had collapsed, a common proble m for babies on ventilators. The team prepared for the typical response to a collapsed lung, which involves piercing the chest and inserting a tube to suck the air from around the collapsed lung, allowing it to reinflate. But the nurse thought it was a heart problem. As soon as she saw the baby's color—that awful blue-black—she suspected a pneumoperi- cardium, a condition in which air fills the sac surrounding the heart, pressing inward and preventing the heart from beating. The nurse was terrified, because the last time she witnessed a pneumoperi- cardium the baby died before the problem could even be diagnosed. STORIES 205 The nurse tried to stop the frantic preparations to treat the lung. "It's the heart!" she said. But in response the other medical personnel pointed to the heart monitor, which showed that the baby's heart was fine; his heart rate was bouncing along steadily, at tbe normal new- born rate of 130 beats per minute. The nurse, still insistent, pushed their hands away and screamed for quiet as she lowered a stethoscope to check for a heartbeat. There was no sound—the heart was not beating. She started doing compressions on the baby's chest. The chief neonatologist burst into the room and the nurse slapped a syringe in his hand. "It's a pneumopericardium," she said. "Stick the heart." The X-ray technician, who was finally receiving results from his scan, confirmed the nurse's diagnosis. The neonatologist guided the syringe into the heart and slowly released the air that had been stran- gling the baby's heart. The baby's life was saved. His color slowly re- turned to normal. Later, the group realized why the heart monitor misled them. It is designed to measure electrical activity, not actual heartbeats. The baby's heart nerves were firing—telling the heart t o beat at the appro- priate rate—but the air in the sac around the heart prevented the heart from actually beating. Only when the nurse used the stetho- scope—so she could hear whether the heart was pumpi ng cor- rectly—did it become clear that his heart had stopp ed. This story was collected by Gary Klein, a psychologist who studies how people make decisions in high-pressure, high-stakes environ- ments. He spends time with firefighters, air-traffic controllers, power- plant operators, and intensive-care workers. The story about the baby appears in a chapter called "The Power of Stories," in Klein's book Sources of Power. Klein says that, in the environments he studies, stories are told and retold because they contain wisdom. Stories are effective teaching 206 MADE TO STICK tools. They show how context can mislead people to make the wrong decisions. Stories illustrate causal relationships that people hadn't recognized before and highlight unexpected, resourceful ways in which people have solved problems. Medically, the story related above teaches important lessons. It in- structs people in how to spot and treat the specific condition pneu- mopericardium. More broadly, it warns medical personnel about relying too much on machines. The heart monitor was functioning perfectly well, but it couldn't substitute for the insight of a human being with a simple stethoscope. These medical lessons are not particularly useful to people who don't work in health care. But the story is inspiring to everyone. It's a story about a woman who stuck to her guns, despite implicit pressure to conform to the group's opinion. It's an underdog story—in the hi- erarchical hospital environment, it was the nurse who told the chief neonatologist the right diagnosis. A life hinged on her willingness to step out of her "proper place." The story's power, then, is twofold: It provides si mulation (knowl- edge about how to act) and inspiration (motivation to act). Note that both benefits, simulation and inspiration, are geared to generating ac- tion. In the last few chapters, we've seen that a credible idea makes people believe. An emotional idea makes people care. And in this chapter we'll see that the right stories make people act. Shop Talk in the Xerox Lunchroom Photocopiers are perhaps the most complex machines that most of us will ever use. What other everyday machine combines optical, me- chanical, chemical, and electrical technologies? It's a wonder copiers work at all. And often they don't. When there's a problem —and it's not one that a cubicle-dweller can fix by opening and shutting the paper tray a few times —it takes a very sophisticat ed repair person to troubleshoot the situation. STORIES 207 Researcher Julian Orr spent a lot of time among Xerox copier re- pairmen and found that they spent a lot of time swapping stories. Take the story below, which was told by a Xerox copier salesperson over a game of cribbage at lunch. (We've provided some explanatory comments in brackets.) The salesperson starts with a reference to a recent mechanical change made by copier designers in an attempt to prevent an ordinary power surge from frying multiple components: The new XER board configuration won't cook the boar d if you had an arcing dicorotron. Instead, it now trips the 24-Volt inter- lock on the Low Voltage Power Supply, and the machi ne will crash. But when it comes back up it'll give you an EO53 error. [This is a misleading error code that refers to an area of the ma- chine that is unrelated to the real problem.] That's exactly what I had down there, at the end of the hall, and Weber and I ran for four hours trying to chase that thing. All it was was a bad dicorotron. We finally got it running long enough so that we got an EO53 with an F066 and the minute we checked the dicorotrons we had one that was totally dead. . . . [Orr reports that there was a long pause for cribba ge.] Yeah that was a fun one. These cribbage-playing guys in the lunchroom are si mply talking shop, as we all do. A misleading EO53 error may not constitute drama in your world, but no doubt we all have our e quivalents. Why do people talk shop? Part of the reason is simply Humanity 101 —we want to talk to other people about the thin gs that we have in common. Xerox repairmen work with photocopiers, so they talk about them. But that's not the only factor at play here. For example, the storyteller above could have shared the