the odds were 50 per cent. The tappers got their message across 1 time in 40, but they thought they were getting their message across 1 ti me in 2. Why? 20 MADE TO STICK When a tapper taps, she is hearing the song in her head. Go ahead and try it for yourself—tap out "The Star-Spa ngled Banner." It's impossible to avoid hearing the tune in your head. Meanwhile, the listeners can't hear that tune —all they can he ar is a bunch of dis- connected taps, like a kind of bizarre Morse Code. In the experiment, tappers are flabbergasted at how hard the lis- teners seem to be working to pick up the tune. Isn't the song obvious? The tappers' expressions, when a listener guesses "Happy Birthday to You" for "The' Star-Spangled Banner," are priceless: How could you be so stupid? It's hard to be a tapper. The problem is that tappers have been given knowledge (the song title) that makes it impossible for them to imagine what it's like to lack that knowledge. When they're tapping, they can't imagine what it's like for the listeners to hear isolated taps rather than a song. This is the Curse of Knowledge. Once we know something, we find it hard to imagine what it was like not to know it. Our knowledge has "cursed" us. And it becomes difficult for us to share our knowledge with others, because we can't readily re-create our listeners' state of mind. The tapper/listener experiment is reenacted every day across the world. The tappers and listeners are CEOs and frontline employees, teachers and students, politicians and voters, marketers and cus- tomers, writers and readers. All of these groups rely on ongoing com- munication, but, like the tappers and listeners, they suffer from enormous information imbalances. When a CEO discuss es "unlock- ing shareholder value," there is a tune playing in her head that the employees can't hear. It's a hard problem to avoid —a CEO might have thir ty years of daily immersion in the logic and conventions of business. Reversing the process is as impossible as un-ringing a bell. You can't unlearn what you already know. There are, in fact, only two ways to beat the Curse of Knowledge reliably. The first is not to learn anything. The second is to take your ideas and transform them. INTRODUCTION 21 This book will teach you how to transform your idea s to beat the Curse of Knowledge. The six principles presented earlier are your best weapons. They can be used as a kind of checklist. Let's take the CEO who announces to her staff that they must strive to "maximize shareholder value." Is this idea simple? Yes, in the sense that it's short, but it lacks the useful simplicity of a proverb. Is it unexpected? N o. Concrete? Not at all. Credible? Only in the sense that it's coming from the mouth of the CEO. Emotional? Urn, no. A story? No. Contrast the "maximize shareholder value" idea with John F. Ken- nedy's famous 1961 call to "put a man on the moon and return him safely by the end of the decade." Simple? Yes. Unexpected? Yes. Con- crete? Amazingly so. Credible? The goal seemed like science fiction, but the source was credible. Emotional? Yes. Story? In miniature. Had John F. Kennedy been a CEO, he would have said, "Our mission is to become the international leader in the space industry through maximum team-centered innovation and strategically tar- geted aerospace initiatives." Fortunately, JFK was more intuitive than a modern-day CEO; he knew that opaque, abstract mis sions don't captivate and inspire people. The moon mission was a classic case of a communicator's dodging the Curse of Knowledge. It was a brilliant and beautiful idea —a single idea that motivated th e actions of mil- lions of people for a decade. Systematic Creativity Picture in your mind the type of person who's great at coming up with ideas. Have a mental image of the person? A lot of people, when asked to do this, describe a familiar stereotype—th e "creative genius," the kind of person who thinks up slogans in a hot advertising agency. Maybe, like us, you picture someone with gelled hair and hip cloth- ing, carrying a dog-eared notebook full of ironies and epiphanies, ready to drop everything and launch a four-hour brainstorming ses- 22 MADE TO STICK sion in a room full of caffeine and whiteboards. Or maybe your stereotype isn't quite so elaborate. There's no question that some people are more creat ive than others. Perhaps they're just born that way. So maybe you'll never be the Michael Jordan of sticky ideas. But the premise of this book is that creating sticky ideas is something that can be learned. In 1999, an Israeli research team assembled a group of 200 highly regarded ads—ads that were finalists and awa rd winners in the top advertising competitions. They found that 89 percent of the award-winning ads could be classified into six basic categories, or templates. That's remarkable. We might expect great creative c on- cepts to be highly idiosyncratic — emerging from th e whims of born creative types. It turns out that six simple templates go a long way. Most of these templates relate to the principle of unexpectedness. For example, the Extreme Consequences template points out unex- pected consequences of a product attribute. One ad emphasizes the power of a car stereo system—when the stereo belts out a tune, a bridge starts oscillating to the music, and when the speakers are cranked up the bridge shimmies so hard that it nearly collapses. This same template also describes the famous World War I I slogan de- vised by the Ad Council, a nonprofit organization that creates public- service campaigns for other nonprofits and governme nt agencies: "Loose Lips Sink Ships." And speaking of extreme co nsequences, let's not forget the eggs sizzling in the 1980s commercial "This is your brain on drugs" (also designed by the Ad Council). The template also pops up spontaneously in naturally sticky ideas—for example, the legend that Newton discovered gravity when an apple fell on his head. (For the other templates, see the endnotes.) The researchers also tried to use their six templates to classify 200 other ads—from the same publications and for the sa me types of products—that had not received awards. Amazingly, w hen the re- searchers tried to classify these "less successful" ads, they could clas- sify only 2 percent of them. INTRODUCTION 23 The surprising lesson of this story: Highly creative ads are more predictable than uncreative ones. It's like Tolstoy's quote: "All happy families resemble each other, but each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." All creative ads resemble one another, but each loser is uncreative in its own way. But if creative ads consistently make use of the same basic set of templates, perhaps "creativity" can be taught. Perhaps even novices— with no creative experience—could produce better id eas if they un- derstood the templates. The Israeli researchers, curious about the ability to teach creativity, decided to see just how far a template could take someone. They brought in three groups