but that their messages could not be allowed to grow more ambiguous. Concreteness is an indis- pensable component of sticky ideas. Understanding Subtraction What makes something "concrete"? If you can examine something with your senses, it's concrete. A V8 engine is concrete. "High- performance" is abstract. Most of the time, concreteness boils down to specific people doing specific things. In the "Unexpected" chap- ter, we talked about Nordstrom's world-class customer service. "World-class customer service" is abstract. A Nordi e ironing a cus- tomer's shirt is concrete. Concrete language helps people, especially novices, understand new concepts. Abstraction is the luxury of the expert. If you've got to teach an idea to a room full of people, and you aren't certain what they know, concreteness is the only safe language. To see this, we can start by studying math classroo ms in Asia. We know, from the news over the years, that East Asian children outper- form American children in, well, just about everything (except the consumption of fatty foods). This is especially evident in math. The math skills of Americans fall behind those of Asians early—the gap is apparent in the first grade, and it widens throughout elementary- school. What are Asian schools doing differently? Our stereotype is that these schools operate with almost robotic efficiency: Hours are long and discipline is strict. We think of East Asian students as being less "creative" somehow; we like to think they outperfor m our students through rote mechanics and memorization. The truth, it turns out, is almost exactly the opposite. CONCRETE 105 In 1993, a group of researchers studied ten schools in Japan, ten in Taiwan, and twenty in the United States. In each school, they picked two different math teachers to observe, and they observed four lessons with each teacher. The researchers found that all the teachers used rote recall quite a bit; it was standard procedure in at least half the les- sons observed in every country. But other techniques varied greatly among the three countries. For instance, consider this question by a Japanese teacher: "You had 100 yen but then you bought a notebook for 70 yen. How much money do you still have?" Or this question, posed b y a teacher in Tai- wan: "Originally there are three kids playing ball. Two more came later, and then one more joined them. How many are playing now?" As she talked, she drew stick figures on the board and wrote down the equation 3 + 2 + 1. Notice that these teachers are explaining abstract mathematical concepts by emphasizing things that are concrete and familiar- buying school supplies and playing ball. Their explanations take ad- vantage of preexisting schemas, a tactic we explored in the "Simple" chapter. Teachers take an existing schema—the dynam ics of a six- person ball game—and overlay a new layer of abstrac tion. The researchers called this style of questioning Co mputing in Context. It is pretty much the opposite of "rote re call." And, contrary to our stereotypes, it occurred about twice as much in Asia as it did in the United States (61 percent of lessons versus 31 percent). In another case, a Japanese teacher placed on a desk 5 rows of 10 tiles each. Then she took away 3 rows of 10 tiles. She asked a student how many tiles were left, and he gave the correct answer: 20. The teacher then asked the students how they knew that this was a sub- traction problem. This teacher provided her students with a visual image of subtraction. Students could build an abstract concept— "subtraction" —on a concrete foundation: 30 tiles b eing yanked away from an original set of 50. The researchers coded q uestions like this one as Conceptual Knowledge questions. This type of question was 106 MADE TO STICK asked in 37 percent of lessons in Japan, 20 percent in Taiwan, but only 2 percent in the United States. Using concreteness as a foundation for abstraction is not just good for mathematical instruction; it is a basic principle of understanding. Novices crave concreteness. Have you ever read an a cademic paper or a technical article or even a memo and found yourself so flummoxed by the fancy abstract language that you were crying out for an example? Or maybe you've experienced the frustration of cooking from a recipe that was too abstract: "Cook until the mixture reaches a hearty consistency." Huh? Just tell me how many minutes to stir! Show me a picture of what it looks like! After we've cooked the dish a few times, then the phrase "hearty consistency" might start to make sense. We build a sensory image of what that phrase represents. But the first time it's as meaningless as 3 + 2 + 1 would be to a three-year-old. This is how concreteness helps us understand—it hel ps us con- struct higher, more abstract insights on the building blocks of our existing knowledge and perceptions. Abstraction demands some concrete foundation. Trying to teach an abstract principle without concrete foundations is like trying to start a house by building a roof in the air. Concrete Is Memorable Concrete ideas are easier to remember. Take individual words, for in- stance. Experiments in human memory have shown that people are better at remembering concrete, easily visualized nouns ("bicycle" or "avocado") than abstract ones ("justice" or "personality"). Naturally sticky ideas are stuffed full of concrete words and im- ages—think of the Kentucky Fried Rat or the Kidney Heist's ice-filled bathtub. The Kidney Heist legend would have been far less sticky if the man had woken up and found that someone had absconded with his self-esteem. CONCRETE 107 Yale researcher Eric Havelock studies tales that have been passed down by word of mouth, such as the Iliad and the Odyssey. He notes that these tales are characterized by lots of concrete actions, with few abstractions. Why? The ancient Greeks certainly had no problem with abstraction —this was the society that produce d Plato and Aris- totle, after all. Havelock believes that the stories evolved away from abstraction over time. When they were passed along from generation to generation, the more memorable concrete details survived and the abstractions evaporated. Let's skip to the modern world and another timeless and beautiful domain of expression: accounting. Put yourself in t he shoes of an ac- counting professor who has to introduce accounting principles to col- lege students. To a new student, accounting can seem bewilderingly abstract—the income statement, the balance sheet, T -accounts, ac- counts receivable, treasury stock. No people or sensory data in sight. As the teacher, how do you make accounting concepts vivid? Two professors from Georgia State University, Carol Springer and Faye Borthick, decided to try something radically different. In the fall of 2000, Springer and Borthick taught a semester of accounting using, as a centerpiece, a semester-long case study. The case study followed a new business launched by two imaginary college sophomores, Kris and Sandy, at LeGrande State University. Kris and Sandy had an idea for a new product called Safe Night Out (SNO), a device targeted at parents with teenagers who were old enough to drive. Installed in the teenager's car,