It's a story about peo- ple who develop a relationship that bridges a gap — racial, class, eth- nic, religious, demographic, or otherwise. The Connection plot doesn't have to deal with life-and-death stakes, as does the Good Samaritan. The connection can be as trivial as a bottle of a Coke, as in the famous Mean Joe Greene commercial. A scrawny young white STORIES 229 fan encounters a towering famous black athlete. A bottle of Coke links them. It ain't the Good Samaritan, but it's clearly a Connection plot. Connection plots are also fabulous for romance stories —think of Romeo and Juliet (or the top-grossing movie of all time, Titanic). All Connection plots inspire us in social ways. They make us want to help others, be more tolerant of others, work with others, love others. The Connection plot is the most common kind of plot found in the Chicken Soup series. Where Challenge plots involve overcoming challenges, Connec- tion plots are about our relationships with other people. If you're telling a story at the company Christmas party, it's probably best to use the Connection plot. If you're telling a story at the kickoff party for a new project, go with the Challenge plot. THE CREATIVITY PLOT The third major type of inspirational story is the Creativity plot. The prototype might be the story of the apple that falls on Newton's head, inspiring his theory of gravity. The Creativity plot involves someone making a mental breakthrough, solving a long-standing puzzle, or at- tacking a problem in an innovative way. It's the MacGyver plot. Ingersoll-Rand is a giant company that makes nonsexy products such as industrial grinders, used in auto shops to sand down auto bod- ies. Historically, Ingersoll-Rand had been slow at bringing new prod- ucts to market. One employee, frustrated by the average four-year product life cycle, said, "It was taking us longer to introduce a new product than it took our nation to fight World War II." Ingersoll-Rand decided to do something about the slow develop- ment cycle. The company created a project team whose goal was to produce a new grinder in a year—one quarter the usu al time. Stan- dard theories of organizational culture would have predicted a slim chance of success. The grinder team, however, did a lot of things right, including the use of stories to emphasize the group's new atti- 230 MADE TO STICK hide and culture. One story, for instance, involved a critical decision about whether to build the new grinder's casing out of plastic or metal. Plastic would be more comfortable for the customer, but would it hold up as well as metal? The traditional Ingersoll-Rand method of solving this problem would have been to conduct protracted, careful studies of the tensile and compression properties of both materials. But this was the Grinder Team. They were supposed to act quickly. A few memb ers of the team cooked up a less formal testing procedure. While on an off-site cus- tomer visit, the team members tied a sample of each material to the back bumper of their rental car, then drove around the parking lot with the materials dragging behind. They kept this up until the police came and told them to knock it off. The verdict was that the new plastic com- posite held up just as well as the traditional metal. Decision made. In the history of the Grinder Team, this story has become known as the Drag Test. The Drag Test is a Creativity plot that reinforced the team's new culture. The Drag Test implied, "We still need to get the right data to make decisions. We just need to do it a lot quicker." The famous explorer Ernest Shackleton faced such enormous odds in his explorations (obviously a classic Challenge plot) that unity among his men was mission-critical. A mutiny could leave everyone dead. Shackleton came up with a creative solution for deal- ing with the whiny, complaining types. He assigned them to sleep in his own tent. When people separated into groups to work on chores, he grouped the complainers with him. Through his constant pres- ence, he minimized their negative influence. Creativity plots make us want to do something different, to be creative, to experiment with new approaches. The goal of reviewing these plots is not to help us invent stories. Unless you write fiction or advertisements, that won't help much. The goal here is to learn how to spot the stories that have potential. STORIES 231 When the Jared article hits our desk, we want to spot the crucial ele- ments immediately. Guy faces huge obstacles and overcomes them — it's a Challenge plot. Challenge plots inspire people to take on challenges and work harder. If that feeling is consistent with the goal you want to achieve, run with the story; don't tack it on the bulletin board. If you're running the Grinder Team, and you're tryi ng to reinvent the company culture, then you need to be on the lookout for Creativ- ity plots. When you hear that some of your men dragged metal around a parking lot, you've found something. Know what you're looking for. You don't need to make stuff up, you don't need to exaggerate or be as melodramatic as the Chicken Soup tales. (The Drag Test isn't melodramatic.) You just need to rec- ognize when life is giving you a gift. Stories at the World Bank In 1996, Stephen Denning was working for the World Bank, the in- ternational institution that lends money to developing countries for infrastructure projects such as building schools, roads, and water- treatment facilities. At the time, he managed the bank's work in Africa —the third-largest area of the bank—and seem ed to be on a fast track to the top of the organization. Then one of his two main mentors retired and the second left. Shortly thereafter he was asked to step down from his Africa position and "look into the issue of information." His superiors asked him to explore the area of knowledge management. Denning s aid, "Now this was a bank which cared about flows of money, not information. The new assignment was the equivalent of being sent to corporate Siberia." The task was not just organizationally unattractive, it was daunt- ing. The World Bank knew a lot about how to achieve results in de- veloping nations, but that information was scattered about the 232 MADE TO STICK organization. The World Bank conducted projects in dozens of coun- tries all over the world—and while there was a cent ral bureaucracy, much of the operational know-how was naturally at the local level. Each project was, in a sense, its own universe. A water-treatment guru in Zambia might have figured out a great way to handle local politi- cal negotiations, but he was unlikely to have the opportunity to share it with a highway-construction guru in Bangladesh. Neither manager would know the other existed, unless they happened to be in the same circle of friends or former colleagues. A month after accepting his assignment, Denning had lunch with a colleague who had just returned from Zambia. This colleague was working on a project to improve health care,