was Art Silverman. He was the guy who stopped a nation from eating obscenely unhealthy movie popcorn. He l aid out a full day's worth of fatty foods next to a tub of popcorn and said, "This is how much saturated fat is in this snack." A normal person with a nor- mal job who made a difference. There was Nora Ephron's journalism teacher. Poor gu y, we didn't even mention his name. He told his class, "The lead is 'There will be no school next Thursday.'" And in that one sentence he rewrote his students' image of journalism. He inspired Ephron—a nd doubtless many others —to become journalists. A normal person with a normal job who made a difference. What about Bob Ocwieja? No chance you remember his name. He's the Subway franchise owner who served sandwich es to a fat guy every day and spotted a great story in the making. Because of Ocwieja the hugely successful Jared campaign was discovered and launched. A normal person with a normal job who made a difference. Then there was Floyd Lee, the leader of the Pegasus mess hall in Iraq. He defined his role as being about morale, not food service. He got the same supplies as everyone else, but soldiers flocked to his tent and his pastry chef started describing her desserts as "sensual." A nor- mal person with a normal job who made a difference. And there was Jane Elliott. Her classroom simulation of racial prejudice is still etched in the minds of her students more than 252 EPILOGUE twenty years later. It's not a stretch to say that she came up with an idea that prevented prejudice, like a vaccine. A normal person with a normal job who made a difference. All these people distinguished themselves by crafting ideas that made a difference. They didn't have power or celebr ity or PR firms or advertising dollars or spinmeisters. All they had were ideas. And that's the great thing about the world of ideas—any of us, with the right insight and the right message, can make an idea stick. MAKING IDEAS STICK THE EASY REFERENCE GUIDE What Sticks? Kidney heist. Halloween candy. Movie popcorn. Sticky = understandable, memorable, and effective in changing thought or behavior. Six principles: SUCCESs. Simple Unexpected Concrete Credible Emotional Stories. The villain: Curse of Knowledge. It's hard to be a tapper. Creativity starts with templates: Beat the Curse with the SUCCESs checklist. 1. Simple Find the core. Commander's Intent. Determine the single most impor tant thing: "THE low-fare airline." Inverted pyramid: Don't bury the lead. The pain of deci- sion paralysis. Beat decision paralysis through relentless prioritization: "It's the economy, stupid." Clinic: Sun exposure. Names, names, names. Share the core. Simple = core + compact. Proverbs: sound bites that are profound. Visual proverbs: The Palm Pilot wood block. How to pack a lot of punch into a compact communication: (1) Using what's there: Tap into existing schemas. The pomelo. (2) Create a high concept pitc h: "Die Hard on a bus." (3) Use a generative analogy: Disney's "cast members." 254 EASY REFERENCE GUIDE 2. Unexpected Get attention: surprise. The successful flight safety announcement. Break a pattern. Break peo- ple's guessing machines (on a core issue). The surprise brow: a pause to collect information. Avoid gimmicky surprise— make it "postdictable." "The Nordie who . . ." "There will be no school nex t Thursday." Clinic: Too much on foreign aid? Hold attention: interest. Create a mystery: What are Saturn's rings made of? Screenplays as mod- els of generating curiosity. The Gap Theory of Curiosity: Highlight a knowledge gap. Use the news-teaser approach: "Which local restaura nt has slime in the ice machine?" Clinic: Fund-raising. Priming the gap: How Roone Arledge made NCAA football interesting to nonfans. Hold long-term interest: the "pocketable radio" and the "man on the moon." 3. Concrete Help people understand and remember. Write with the concreteness of a fable. (Sour grape s.) Make abstraction concrete: The Nature Conservancy's landscapes as ec o-celebrities. Provide a concrete context: Asian teachers' approac h to teaching math. Put people into the story: accounting class t aught with a soap opera. Use the Velcro theory of memory: The more ho oks in your idea, the better. Brown eyes, blue eyes: a simulation that "c ured" racial prejudice. Help people coordinate. Engineers vs. manufacturers: Find common ground at a shared level of understaiiding. Set common goals in tangible terms: Our plane will land on Runway 4-22. Make it real: The Ferraris go to Disney World. Why concreteness helps: white things versus white things in your refrigerator. Create a turf where people can bring their knowledg e to bear: The VC EASY REFERENCE GUIDE 255 pitch and the maroon portfolio. Clinic: Oral Rehydration Therapy. Talk about people, not data: Hamburger Helper's in-home visits and "Saddleback Sam." 4. Credible Help people believe. The Nobel-winning ulcer insight no one believed. Fle sh-eating bananas. External credibility. Authority and antiauthority. Pam Laffin, smoker. Internal credibility. Use convincing details. Jurors and the Darth Vader Toothbrush. The dancing seventy-three year old. Make statistics accessible. Nuclear warheads as BBs. The Human Scale principle. Stephen Covey's analogy of a workplace to a soccer team. Clinic: Shark attack hysteria. Find an example that passes the Sinatra Test. "If you can make it there, you can make it anywhere." Transporting Bollywood m ovies: "We han- dled Harry Potter and your brother's board exams." A business-friendly environmentalist and the textile factory that actually purified the water that fed it—and yielded fabric that was edible. Use testable credentials. "Try before you buy." Where's the beef? Snapple supports the KKK?! Coaches: It's easier to tear down than to build up: Filling the Emotional Tank. NBA rookie orientation: "These women all have AIDS." 5. Emotional Make people care. The Mother Teresa principle: If I look at the one, I will act. People donate more to Rokia than to a huge swath of Africa . The Truth anti- 256 EASY REFERENCE GUIDE smoking campaign: What made kids care was not health concerns but anticorporate rebellion. Use the power of association. The need to fight semantic stretch: the diluted meaning of "relativity" and why "unique" isn't unique anymore. Transforming "sportsmanship" into "honoring the game." Appeal to self-interest (and not just base self-interest). Mail-order ads— "They laughed when I sat down at the piano. . . ." WIIFY. Cable television in Tempe: Visualizing what it could do for you. Avoid Maslow's basement: our false assumption that other people are baser than we are. Floyd Lee and his Iraq mess tent : "I'm in charge of morale." Appeal to identity. The firemen who rejected the popcom popper. Underst and how people make decisions based on identity. (Who am I? What k ind of situation is this? And what do people like me do in this kind of situation?) Clinic: Why study algebra? Don't mess with Texas: Texans don't litter. Don't forget the Curse of Knowledge—don't assume, like th e defenders of the duo piano, that others care at the same level that you do. 6. Stories Get people to act. Stories as simulation (tell people how to act). The day the heart monitor lied: how the nurse