she was given three huge binders full of data and stats: sales and volume data, advertising-strategy briefs, prod- uct information, and market research on the brand's customers. The binders were difficult to pick up, let alone absorb into memory. She called them the "death binders." A few months later, Studzinski's team decided to pu t the data aside and try something new. They made plans to send members of the Hamburger Helper team—marketing, advertising, and R & D staffers —out into the homes of Hamburger Helper customers. The idea was known informally as "Fingertips," because the Gener al Mills employ- ees needed to have a picture of the brand's customers at their fingertips. A call went out for mothers (the predominant customers of Ham- burger Helper) who were willing to let strangers co me into their homes and gawk at them while they cooked. The team visited two to three dozen homes. Studzinski visited three homes, and the experi- ence stuck with her. "I had read and I could recite all the data about our customers," she says. "I knew their demographics by heart. But it was a very different experience to walk into a customer's home and experience a little bit of her life. I'll never forget one woman, who had a toddler on her hip while she was mixing up dinner on the stove. We know that 'convenience' is an important attribute of our product, but it's a different thing to see the need for convenience firsthand." Most of all, Studzinski learned that moms and their kids really valued predictability. Hamburger Helper had eleven different pasta shapes, but kids didn't care about different shapes. What they did care about was flavor, and moms just wanted to buy the same predictable fla- vor their kids wouldn't reject. But Hamburger Helper had more than thirty different flavors, and moms struggled to find their favorites among the massive grocery-store displays. Food and beverage companies constantly push to develop new flavors and packages, but Studzinski needed to resist this push. "Moms saw new flavors a s risky," she says. 128 MADE TO STICK Using this concrete information about moms and kids, the team convinced a diverse collection of people across the organization—in groups ranging from supply chain and manufacturing to finance — to simplify the product line. According to Studzinski, the cost savings were "huge," yet moms were happier because it was easier to find their families' favorites on grocery stores shelves. The insight to simplify the product line —along with other key insights concern ing pricing and advertising—sparked a turnaround for the brand. At the end of fiscal year 2005, Hamburger Helper's sales had increased 1 1 percent. Studzinski says, "Now when I've got a decision to make about the brand, I think of the women I met. I wonder what they would do if they were in my shoes. And it's amazing how helpful it is to think that way." The same philosophy is just as useful for ideas that are more tran- scendent. The Saddleback Church is a very successful church in a suburb of Irvine, California, that has grown to more than 50,000 members. Over the years, the church's leaders have created a de- tailed picture of the kind of person they're trying to reach. They call him "Saddleback Sam." Here's how Rick Warren, the m inister of the Saddleback Church, describes him: Saddleback Sam is the typical unchurched man who lives in our area. His age is late thirties or early forties. He has a college de- gree and may have an advanced degree. ... He is married to Sad- dleback Samantha, and they have two kids, Steve and Sally. Surveys show that Sam likes his job, he likes where he lives, and he thinks he's enjoying life more now than he was five years ago. He's self-satisfied, even smug, about his station in life. He's either a professional, a manager, or a successful entrepreneur. ... Another important characteristic of Sam is that he's skepti- cal of what he calls "organized" religion. He's likely to say, "I be- lieve in Jesus. I just don't like organized religion." CONCRETE 129 The profile goes into much greater depth: Sam and Samantha's tastes in pop culture, their preferences about social events, and so on. What does "Saddleback Sam" accomplish for church leaders? Sam forces them to view their decisions through a different lens. Say someone proposes a telemarketing campaign to local community members. It sounds as if it has great potential to reach new people. But the leaders know from their research that Sam hates telemar- keters, so the idea is scratched. And thinking about Saddleback Sam and Samantha isn't limited to church leaders. There are hundreds of small ministries at the Sad- dleback Church: grade school classes, Mother's Day Out programs, a men's basketball league. All are led by volunteer members who don't receive day-to-day direction from paid church staff. But these diverse programs work together because people throughout the church know whom they're trying to reach. "Most of our members would have no trouble describing Sam," Warren says. By making Saddleback Sam and Samantha a living, bre athing, concrete presence in the minds of the members of the Saddleback Church, the church has managed to reach 50,000 real Sams and Samanthas. Of the six traits of stickiness that we review in this book, concrete- ness is perhaps the easiest to embrace. It may also be the most effec- tive of the traits. To be simple —to find our core message —is quite di fficult. (It's certainly worth the effort, but let's not kid ourselves that it's easy.) Crafting our ideas in an unexpected way takes a fair amount of effort and applied creativity. But being concrete isn't hard, and it doesn't re- quire a lot of effort. The barrier is simply forgetfulness—we forget that we're slipping into abstractspeak. We forget that other people don't know what we know. We're the engineers who keep flipping back to our drawings, not noticing that the assemblers just want us to follow them down to the factory floor. CHAPTER 4 CREDIBLE Over the course of a lifetime, one person in ten will develop an ulcer. Duodenal ulcers, the most common type, are al- most never fatal, but they are extremely painful. For a long time, the cause of ulcers was a mystery. Conventional wisdom held that ulcers developed when surplus acid built up in the stomach, eat- ing through the stomach wall. Such surplus acid could be caused, it was thought, by stress, spicy foods, or lots of alcohol. Ulcer treatments traditionally focused on mitigating the painful symptoms, since there was no clear way to "cure" an ulcer. In the early 1980s, two medical researchers from Perth, Australia, made an astonishing discovery: Ulcers are caused by bacteria. The re- searchers, Barry Marshall and Robin Warren, identified a tiny spiral- shaped type of bacteria as the culprit. (It would later be named Helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori.) The significance of this discovery was enormous: If ulcers were caused by bacteria, they could be cured. In fact, they could be cured within a matter of days by a simple treat- ment with antibiotics. The