local celebrity, but what happened next landed Bethany in headlines around the world. It was early morning. Bethany was in the ocean lying on her board with her arm dangling in the water. Suddenly, a deadly fif- teen-foot tiger shark seized her arm. Violently, he jerked and yanked it until her arm was ripped right off of her small body. Sec- onds later the shark and her entire arm were gone, and Bethany was left alone on her board surrounded by bloody water. Imagine that you are forced to combat these vivid stories. Maybe you're the publicity director of the Save the Sharks Foundation, or maybe you're trying to convince your junior high school daughter that it's okay to go to the beach. How do you do it? You've got the truth on your side—attacks are very rare—but that's no guarantee that people will believe you. So what source of credibility do you tap to get people to believe you? CREDIBLE 149 message 1: We based this message on statistics published by the Florida Museum of Natural History: You're more likely to drown on a beach in an area protected by a lifeguard than you are to be attacked by a shark, much less killed by one. In the United States in 2000, twelve people died in lifeguard- protected areas. There were no fatalities from sharks. (In a typical year there are only 0.4 fatalities.) comments on message 1: This is okay but not great. This message taps internal credibility—the credibility of hard statistics. We have two comments: First, drowning does not seem like the right comparison to make, because many people may think drowning is a common cause of death. "Drowning is more common than shark attacks" does not feel particularly unexpected. (And maybe we're too skepti- cal, but the presence of the college-student lifeguard never struck us as an ironclad guarantee of safety.) Second, the statistical compari- son—12 deaths versus 0.4—is good, but it isn't particularly vivid or meaningful on a human scale. It's unlikely that anyone would re- member these numbers a week later. message 2: This message is also based on statistics published by the Florida Museum of Natural History: Which of these animals is more likely to kill you? A SHARK A DEER answer: The deer is more likely to kill you. In fact, it's 300 times more likely to kill you (via a collision with your car). 150 MADE TO STICK comments on message 2: We like the unexpected idea that Bambi is more dangerous than the evil shark, followed by the doubly unex- pected statistic that Bambi is wildly more dangerous (300 times more deadly!). It's absurd to the point of being funny, and humor is a nice antidote to the fear generated by shark-attack stories. In a sense, we're fighting emotional associations with emotional associations (see the next chapter). This message taps internal credibility with the statistic, but it also taps into the audience as a source of credibility. People in the audience know how much they fear deer when they're driving around—i.e., not much. Few of us are afraid to go out in the evening on account of lurk- ing deer. We know that we don't fear deer, so why should we fear sharks? (This is more effective than comparing shark attacks with drowning—after all, most of us have at least a mild fear of drowning.) Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple X X Unexpected - X Concrete X X Credible X XX Emotional - X Story - - punch line: When we use statistics, the less we rely on the actual numbers the better. The numbers inform us about the underlying re- lationship, but there are better ways to illustrate the underlying rela- tionship than the numbers themselves. Juxtaposing the deer and the shark is similar to Ainscow's use of BBs in a bucket. CREDIBLE 151 The Sinatra Test and Safexpress We've seen that we can make our ideas more credible , on their own merits, by using compelling details or by using statistics. A third way to develop internal credibility is to use a particular type of example, an example that passes what we call the Sinatra Test. In Frank Sinatra's classic "New York, New York," he sings about starting a new life in New York City, and the chorus declares, "If I can make it there, I'll make it anywhere." An example passes the Sinatra Test when one example alone is enough to establish credibility in a given domain. For instance, if you've got the security contract for Fort Knox, you're in the running for any security contract (even if you have no other clients). If you catered a White House function, you can compete for any catering contract. It's the Sinatra Test: If you can make it there, you can make it anywhere. Safexpress, a family-owned business based in India, used the Sina- tra Test to its advantage. Safexpress competes in the shipping busi- ness, where competition is fierce. And, while the competition led to low prices, there was a catch: Most shipping firms would not guaran- tee safe, on-time deliveries. With some firms, you couldn't be guar- anteed that deliveries would be made, ever. To distinguish itself from the competition, Safexpress assured its customers of safe, on-time delivery. International companies operat- ing in India—companies accustomed to the reliabilit y of FedEx— embraced Safexpress immediately. But Safexpress struggled to attract business from Indian companies that weren't accusto med to paying higher rates. Rubal Jain, a member of the founding family of Safe- xpress, was determined to make inroads with Indian companies. To do so, Jain set his sights on winning the account of a major Bollywood studio. When Jain proposed that Safexpres s distribute the studio's films, the reaction was "Are you kidding?" The skepticism was predictable and plausible: Pirac y is a major concern in India, as it is in the rest of the world, so distribution is 152 MADE TO STICK mission-critical. If films end up "misplaced" en route, bootlegged versions show up a few weeks later on street corners. This risk wasn't one that the movie studio could take. Fortunately, Jain had a powerful credential ready. Safexpress had handled the release of the fifth Harry Potter book—every Potter book in every bookstore in India had been delivered there by Safexpress, an insanely complicated.delivery: All the books had to arrive in stores by 8 A.M. on the morning of the release. Not too early, or the bookstore owners might try to sell them early and the secret would be blown; and not too late, or the bookstore owners would be irate at lost sales. Also, the Potter books needed the same piracy protections as the stu - dio's films—there could be no leaks. And Jain had a second story. He knew from an earlier conversa- tion that the Bollywood studio executive had a brot her who had re- cently taken his high school board exams. After telling the Harry Potter story, Jain mentioned, "By the way, we also safely delivered the examination papers for your brother's boards and carried the return answer sheets." Safexpress handles the distribution of all the central examinations for high school