part of the park's success. "Employees as cast members" is a generative metaphor that has worked for Disney for more than fifty years. Contrast Disney with Subway. Like Disney, Subway ha s created a metaphor for its frontline employees. They are "sandwich artists." This metaphor is the evil twin of Disney's "cast members." It is utterly useless as a guide to how the employee should act. Disney expects its cast members to behave like actors, but Subway does not expect its counter help to behave like artists. The defining trait of an "artist" is individual expression. We wonder how long an employee would last at Subway if she exhibited a lot of individual expression —in dress, in interaction, in the presentation of sandwiches. No doubt Subway's sandwich artists are trusted to place a handful of onions on a twelve- inch sub, and it's true that this is a certain kind of liberty. But one sus- pects that the counter person's "artistry" can't extend to adding an extra slice of turkey. The Power of Simplicity Generative metaphors and proverbs both derive their power from a clever substitution: They substitute something easy to think about for something difficult. The proverb "A bird in hand is worth two in the bush" gives us a tangible, easily processed statement that we can use for guidance in complex, emotionally fraught situations. Generative metaphors perform a similar role. The "cast members" at Disney 62 MADE TO STICK might find it easier to tackle a new situation from the perspective of a hired actor than from their own unique individual perspective. Proverbs are the Holy Grail of simplicity. Coming up with a short, compact phrase is easy. Anybody can do it. On the other hand, com- ing up with a profound compact phrase is incredibly difficult. What we've tried to show in this chapter is that the effort is worth it—that "finding the core," and expressing it in the form of a compact idea, can be enduringly powerful. UNEXPECTED By FAA edict, a flight attendant must make a safety announce- ment before a passenger plane takes off. We've all heard it: where the exits are, what to do in case of a "sudden change in cabin pressure," how to use your seat as a flotation device, and why you shouldn't smoke in the lavatories (or tinker with the smoke alarm). Flight-safety announcements might be labeled a tough message environment. No one cares about what's being communicated. The flight attendant doesn't care. The passengers don't care. Filibusters are fascinating by comparison. What if you were asked to make the safety announcement? Worse, what if you actually needed people to listen to you? How would you handle it? A flight attendant named Karen Wood faced exactly t his situation and solved it with creativity. On a flight from Dallas to San Diego, she made the following announcement: If I could have your attention for a few moments, we sure would love to point out these safety features. If you haven't been in an automobile since 1965, the proper way to fasten your seat belt is 64 MADE TO STICK to slide the flat end into the buckle. To unfasten, lift up on the buckle and it will release. And as the song goes, there might be fifty ways to leave your lover, but there are only six ways to leave this aircraft: two forward exit doors, two over-wing removable window exits, and two aft exit doors. The location of each exit is clearly marked with signs over- head, as well as red and white disco lights along the floor of the aisle. Made ya look! It didn't take long for passengers to tune into Wood's comic spiel. When she wrapped up her announcement, scattered app lause broke out. (And if a well-designed message can make people applaud for a safety announcement there's hope for all of us.) The first problem of communication is getting people's attention. Some communicators have the authority to demand attention. Par- ents are good at this: "Bobby, look at me!" Most of the time, though, we can't demand attention; we must attract it. This is a tougher chal- lenge. People say, "You can't make people pay attention," and there is a commonsense ring to that. But wait a minute: That 's exactly what Karen Wood did. She made people pay attention, and she didn't even need to raise her voice. The most basic way to get someone's attention is this: Break a pat- tern. Humans adapt incredibly quickly to consistent patterns. Consis- tent sensory stimulation makes us tune out: Think of the hum of an air conditioner, or traffic noise, or the smell of a candle, or the sight of a bookshelf. We may become consciously aware of the se things only when something changes: The air conditioner shuts off. Your spouse rearranges the books. Wood got people's attention in a message-hostile environment by avoiding the same generic safety spiel that her passengers had heard many times. She told jokes, which not only got people's attention but UNEXPECTED 65 kept it. But if getting attention had been Wood's only concern, she wouldn't have needed to be so entertaining. She could have gotten passengers' attention just as easily by starting the announcement and then suddenly pausing in midsentence. Or switching to Russian for a few seconds. Our brain is designed to be keenly aware of changes. Smart prod- uct designers are well aware of this tendency. They make sure that, when products require users to pay attention, something changes. Warning lights blink on and off because we would tu ne out a light that was constantly on. Old emergency sirens wailed in a two-note pattern, but modern sirens wail in a more complex pattern that's even more attention-grabbing. Car alarms make diabolical use of our change sensitivity. This chapter focuses on two essential questions: How do I get peo- ple's attention? And, just as crucially, How do I keep it? We can't suc- ceed if our messages don't break through the clutter to get people's attention. Furthermore, our messages are usually complex enough that we won't succeed if we can't keep people's attention. To understand the answers to these two questions, we have to un- derstand two essential emotions—surprise and intere st—that are commonly provoked by naturally sticky ideas. Surprise gets our attention. Some naturally sticky ideas pro - pose surprising "facts": The Great Wall of China is the only man-made structure visible from space! You use only 10 percent of your brain! You should drink eight glasses of water a day! Urban legends frequently contain surpr ising plot twists. Interest keeps our attention. There are classes of sticky ideas that maintain our interest over time. Conspiracy theories keep people ravenously collecting new information. Gossip keeps us coming back to our friends for developments. 66 MADE TO STICK Naturally sticky ideas are frequently unexpected. If we can make our ideas more unexpected, they will be stickier. But can you generate "unexpectedness"? Isn't "planned unexpectedness" an oxymoron? GETTING PEOPLE'S ATTENTION No One Ever Does The television commercial for the new Enclave minivan opens with the Enclave sitting in front of a park. A boy holding a football