if we're skeptical about our ability to affect belief, we merely have to look at naturally sticky ideas, because some of them persuade us to believe some pretty incredible things. Around 1999, an e-mail message spread over the Internet, for- warded from person to person, claiming that shipmen ts of bananas from Costa Rica were infected with necrotizing fasciitis, otherwise known as flesh-eating bacteria. People were warned not to purchase bananas for the next three weeks, and urged to seek medical atten- tion!!! if they contracted a rash after eating a banana. The e-mail also warned, "The skin infection from necrotizing fasciitis is very painful and eats two to three centimeters of flesh per hour. Amputation is likely, death is possible." It claimed that the Food and Drug Adminis- tration (FDA) was reluctant to issue a general warning because it feared a nationwide panic. (One would think that disappearing cen- timeters of flesh might be sufficient to cause a panic, even in the ab- sence of the FDA's response.) This surprising messa ge was attributed to the Manheim Research Institute. This bizarre rumor spread at least in part because it had an air of authority. It was circulated by the Manheim Research Institute! And the Food and Drug Administration knew about the problem! The 134 MADE TO STICK Manheim Research Institute and the FDA are invoked as credibility- boosters. Their authority makes us think twice about what would oth- erwise be some pretty incredible statements: Necrotizing fasciitis consumes three centimeters of flesh per hour? If that's true, why isn't the story on the evening news? Evidently, someone realized that the rumor's credibility could be improved. Later versions added, "This message has b een verified by the Centers for Disease Control." If the rumor circulated long enough, no doubt it would eventually be "approved b y the Dalai Lama" and "heartily endorsed by the Security Council." As the contaminated bananas show, authorities are a reliable source of credibility for our ideas. When we think of authorities who can add credibility, we tend to think of two kinds of people. The first kind is the expert—the kind of person whose w all is covered with framed credentials: Oliver Sachs for neuroscience, Alan Greenspan for economics, or Stephen Hawking for physics. Celebrities and other aspirational figures make up the second class of "authorities." Why do we care that Michael Jordan likes McDonald's? Certainly he is not a certified nutritionist or a world- class gourmet. We care because we want to be like Mike, and if Mike likes McDonald's, so do we. If Oprah likes a book, it makes us more interested in that book. We trust the recommendations of people whom we want to be like. If you have access to the endorsement of Stephen Ha wking or Michael Jordan —renowned experts or celebrities —sk ip this part of the chapter. As for the rest of us, whom can we call on? Can we find external sources of credibility that don't involve celebrities or ex- perts? The answer, surprisingly, is yes. We can tap the credibility of anti- authorities. One antiauthority was a woman named Pa m Laffin. CREDIBLE 135 Pam Laffin, the Antiauthority Pam Laffin was the star of a series of antismoking TV ads that were broadcast in the mid-1990s. Laffin is not a celebrity and she's not a health expert. She's a smoker. At the time, Laffin was a twenty-nine-year-old mother of two. She had started smoking at age ten and had developed emphysema by age twenty-four. She'd suffered a failed lung transplant. Greg Connolly, the director of tobacco control for the Massachu- setts Department of Public Health (MDPH), was in charge of designing a public-service campaign against smoking. He became aware of Pam Laffin and asked her to share her story with the public. She agreed. Connolly said, "What we've learned from previous ca mpaigns is that telling stories using real people is the most compelling way." The MDPH filmed a series of thirty-second spots, broadc ast during hip shows such as Ally McBeal and Dawson's Creek. The spots were bru- tal. They showed Laffin battling to live while slowly suffocating be- cause of her failing lungs. The TV audience watched her enduring an invasive bronchoscopy—a procedure in which a tub e with a cam- era at the end is inserted through the mouth and pushed into the lungs. The spots showed the nasty surgical scars on her back. In another spot, featuring photos of Laffin as a child and as an adult, she talks about how her emphysema left her with a "fat face" and "a hump on my neck." She said, "I started smoking to look older and I'm sorry to say it worked." The spots were difficult to watch, and contrasted jarringly with the light soap-opera fare of shows like Dawson's Creek. "We have no com- punction at all about shocking smokers into waking up," Connolly said. Laffin became a heroine of the antismoking movement. She was the subject of an MTV documentary. The Centers for Disease Con- trol features her story in an antismoking Web campaign and a twenty- minute educational video titled I Can't Breathe. 136 MADE TO STICK She died in November 2000 at the age of thirty-one, three weeks before she was scheduled for a second lung transplant. After hearing Laffin's story you're probably not surprised that she was an effective spokeswoman. There's no question that she knew from personal experience what she was talking about. She had a powerful tale to tell. Another example of drawing credibility from antiauthorities comes from the Doe Fund in New York City, an organization that takes homeless men—the John Does of our society—and turns them into productive citizens through counseling, drug rehabilitation, and, most important, job training. A few years ago, some representa- tives from a grant organization —potential financia l supporters— were going to visit the offices of the Doe Fund. The Doe Fund sent a driver, Dennis, to pick them up and drive them to the home office. Dennis had been homeless before he turned to the Doe Fund for help. During the forty-five-minute car trip, Dennis shared his story with the grant representatives. One commented, "We weren't just sit- ting around listening to a bunch of directors telling us how effective their services are; Dennis was the best ambassador that the Doe Fund could provide—he was living proof." The Doe Fund al so uses this principle internally. Every homeless man who enters the program is matched with a mentor who, two years before, was in the same situa- tion. It's worth reminding ourselves that it wasn't obvious that Laffin or Dennis would be effective authorities. Thirty years ago, an antismok- ing campaign like Laffin's would probably not have happened. In- stead, the Surgeon General would have given us a stern lecture on the dangers of smoking. Or Burt Reynolds would have extolled the virtues of a smoke-free life. A citizen of the modern world, constantly inundated with mes- sages, learns to develop skepticism about the sources of those mes- CREDIBLE 137 sages. Who's behind these messages? Should I trust them? What do they have to gain if I believe them? A commercial