activities are interrupted, our attention focuses in- voluntarily on the event that surprised us. When a minivan com- mercial ends in a bloodcurdling crash, we stop and wonder, What is going on? Unexpected ideas are more likely to stick because surprise makes us pay attention and think. That extra attention and thinking sears unexpected events into our memories. Surprise gets our attention. Sometimes the attention is fleeting, but in other cases surprise can lead to enduring attention. Surprise can prompt us to hunt for under- lying causes, to imagine other possibilities, to figure out how to avoid surprises in the future. Researchers who study conspiracy theories, for instance, have noted that many of them arise when people are grapp ling with unex- UNEXPECTED 69 pected events, such as when the young and attractive die suddenly. There are conspiracy theories about the sudden deaths of JFK, Mari- lyn Monroe, Elvis, and Kurt Cobain. There tends to be less conspira- torial interest in the sudden deaths of ninety-year-olds. Surprise makes us want to find an answer—to resolve the question of why we were surprised—and big surprises call for big answers. If we want to motivate people to pay attention, we sho uld seize the power of big surprises. Avoiding Gimmickry Going for a big surprise, though, can cause a big problem. It's easy to step over the line into gimmickry. The late 1990s was the heyday of the dot-com bubble. Venture- backed start-ups poured millions of dollars into advertising to estab- lish their brands. With increasing amounts of money chasing a finite amount of consumer attention, ads had to work harder and harder to provoke surprise and interest. During the Super Bowl of 2000, an ad ran that opene d with a col- lege marching band practicing on a football field. We're shown close- ups of the band members as they execute their preci sion movements. Then we cut to the stadium tunnel, which leads out onto the field — and suddenly a dozen ravenous wolves rush onto the field. Band members scatter in terror as the wolves hunt them down and attack. What was this advertisement for? We have no idea. T here's no question that this ad was surprising and memorable. To this day, we remember the tastelessly comic image of the wolves chasing the terrified band members. But because the surprise was utterly non- germane to the message that needed to be communicated, it was worthless. If the product being advertised had been "mauling-proof band uniforms," on the other hand, the ad could have been an award winner. In this sense, the wolves ad is the opposite of the Enclave ad. Both 70 MADE TO STICK ads contain powerful surprises, but only the Enclave ad uses that sur- prise to reinforce its core message. In Chapter 1 we discussed the im- portance of finding the core in your ideas. Using surprise in the service of a core message can be extremely powerful. Hension and Phraug Below is a list of four words. Read each one and take a second to de- termine whether it's a real English word. HENSION BARDLE PHRAUG TAYBL According to Bruce Whittlesea and Lisa Williams, the researchers who developed this task, "PHRAUG and TAYBL often ca use raised eyebrows, and an 'Oh!' reaction. HENSION and BARDLE often cause a frown." PHRAUG and TAYBL cause the surprise brow because th ey look unfamiliar but sound familiar. The "Oh!" reaction comes when we realize that PHRAUG is just a funny way to spell FROG. HENSION and BARDLE are more troubling. They seem od dly familiar, because they borrow letter combinations from common words. They have the look of SAT words—fancy vocabu lary that we should probably know but don't. But HENSION and BAR DLE are made-up words. When we realize that we've been stru ggling to find a nonexistent solution, we get frustrated. HENSION and BARDLE provide an example of surprise w ithout insight. So far, we've talked a lot about the power of surprise, and how surprise can make our ideas stickier. But although HENSION and BARDLE are surprising, they aren't sticky; they're just frustrating. What we see now is that surprise isn't enough. We also need insight. UNEXPECTED 71 To be surprising, an event can't be predictable. Surprise is the op- posite of predictability. But, to be satisfying, surprise must be "post- dictable." The twist makes sense after you think about it, but it's not something you would have seen coming. PHRAUG is pos t-dictable, but HENSION isn't. Contrast the feeling you get fro m TV shows or films, such as The Sixth Sense, that have great surprise endings — endings that unite clues that you've been exposed to all along—with the feeling you get from gimmicky, unforeseeable endings ("It was all a dream"). We started the chapter by pointing out that surprise happens when our guessing machines fail. The emotion of surprise is de- signed to focus our attention on the failure, so that we can improve our guessing machines for the future. Then we drew a distinction be- tween gimmicky surprise, like dot-com ads, and meaningful post- dictable surprise. Here is the bottom line for our everyday purposes: If you want your ideas to be stickier, you've got to break someone's guessing ma- chine and then fix it. But in surprising people, in breaking their guessing machines, how do we avoid gimmicky surpris e, like the wolves? The easiest way to avoid gimmicky surprise and ensure that your unexpected ideas produce insight is to make sure you target an aspect of your audience's guessing machines that relates to your core message. We've already seen a few examples of this strategy. In Chapter 1, we discussed Hoover Adams, the newspaper pub- lisher whose mantra is "Names, names, and names." T o most local newspaper reporters, this mantra will seem like common sense. Cer- tainly, their schemas of "good local news" involve community-focused stories. But that wasn't Adams's point. He had something much more rad- ical in mind. So he broke their schema by saying, essentially, "If I could, I'd publish pages from the phone book to get names. In fact, if I could gather up enough names I'd hire more typesetters to lay out more pages so they'd fit." Suddenly the reporters r ealized that 72 MADE TO STICK "Names, names, and names" was not consistent with their schemas. Whereas their previous schema might have been "Try to emphasize local angles when you can," Adams had replaced that with "Names come before everything else, even my own profitability." That's a message that draws power from its unexpectedness. Another example we discussed in Chapter 1 was South west Air- lines' proverb "THE low-cost airline." Again, most Southwest staffers and customers know that Southwest is a discount airline. In that con- text, the proverb seems intuitive. It was only when Kelleher put teeth in the proverb —refusing to offer chicken salad to customers even if they really wanted it—that its meaning sank in. Bef ore Kelleher, an average staffer's guessing machine might have predicted, "We want to please our customers in a low-cost way." After Kelleher, the guessing machine was refined to "We will be THE