bad movies, even though they may be painful to watch, because it's too painful not to know how they end. This "gap theory" of interest seems to explain why some domains create fanatical interest: They naturally create knowledge gaps. Take UNEXPECTED 85 movies, for instance. McKee's language is similar to Loewenstein's: McKee says, "Story works by posing questions and opening situa- tions." Movies cause us to ask, What will happen? Mystery novels cause us to ask, Who did it? Sports contests cause us to ask, Who will win? Crossword puzzles cause us to ask, What is a six-letter word for "psychiatrist"? Pokemon cards cause kids to wonder, Which charac- ters am I missing? One important implication of the gap theory is that we need to open gaps before we close them. Our tendency is to tell people the facts. First, though, they must realize that they need these facts. The trick to convincing people that they need our message, according to Loewenstein, is to first highlight some specific knowledge that they're missing. We can pose a question or puzzle that confronts people with a gap in their knowledge. We can point out that someone else knows something they don't. We can present them with situations that have unknown resolutions, such as elections, sports events, or mysteries. We can challenge them to predict an outcome (which creates two knowledge gaps — What will happen? and Was I right?). As an example, most local news programs run teaser ads for up- coming broadcasts. The teasers preview the lead story of the evening, usually in laughably hyperbolic terms: "There's a new drug sweeping the teenage community—and it may be in your own med icine cabi- net!" "Which famous local restaurant was just cited—for slime in the ice machine?" "There's an invisible chemical in your home—and it may be killing you right now!" These are sensationalist examples of the gap theory. They work because they tease you with something that you don't know—in fact, something that you didn't care about at all, until you found out that you didn't know it. "Is my daughter strung out on one of my old pre- scriptions? I wonder if I ate at the restaurant with the slime?" A little dollop of the news-teaser approach can make our commu- nications a lot more interesting, as we'll see in the Clinic. 86 MADE TO STICK An Internal Presentation on Fund-raising the situation: Imagine that you're the fund-raising manager for a local theater company. Your job is to help raise donations to support the theater. It's now the end of the year, and you're preparing a sum- mary presentation for the theater's board of directors. message 1: (Both messages in this Clinic are made up.) This year we targeted support from theatergoers under thirty-five. Our goal is to increase donations from younger patrons, who have tra- ditionally composed a much greater percentage of our audience than of our donor base. To reach them, we implemented a phone-based fund-raising program. Six months into the program, the response rate has been almost 20 percent, which we consider a success. comments on message 1: This message is a classic summary ap- proach. I know the facts. I've put the facts in a logical order and I will spoon-feed them to you. As a presentation format, it's safe and nor- mal and thoroughly nonsticky. In improving this message, we need to think about how to elicit interest rather than force-feeding facts. We'll try to add a dash of the news-teaser approach. message 2: This year we set out to answer a question: Why do people under thirty-five, who make up 40 percent of our audience, provide only 10 percent of our donations? Our theory was that they didn't re- alize how much we rely on charitable donations to do our work, so UNEXPECTED 87 we decided to try calling them with a short overview of our business and our upcoming shows. Going into the six-month test, we thought a 10 percent response rate would be a success. Before I tell you what happened, let me remind you of how we set up the program. comments on message 2: This approach is inspired by the gap the- ory. The goal is not to summarize; it's to make you care about know- ing something, and then to tell you what you want to know. Like the Saturn rings mystery, it starts with a puzzle: Why don't young people donate more? Then we present a theory and a way of testing it. The mystery engages the members of our audience, causing them to wonder what happened and whether our theory was right. The improvement here is driven by structure, not content. Let's face it, this is not a particularly interesting mystery. It would never make an episode of Law & Order. But our minds are extremely gen- erous when it comes to mysteries—the format is inherently appealing. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - - Unexpected - X Concrete - - Credible X X Emotional - - Story - - punch line: To hold people's interest, we can use the gap theory of curiosity to our advantage. A little bit of mystery goes a long way. 88 MADE TO STICK The news-teaser approach can be used with all sorts of ideas in all sorts of contexts. To make our communications more effective, we need to shift our thinking from "What information do I need to con- vey?" to "What questions do I want my audience to ask?" Battling Overconfidence The gap theory relies on our ability to point out things that people don't know. One complication is that people tend to think they know a lot. Research has shown that we are typically overconfident about how much we know. In one study, researchers asked people to consider the serious parking problem faced by their university. Participants were given time to generate as many solutions as they could. T he participants generated, in total, about 300 solutions, which were classified into seven major categories. One category suggested ways to reduce de- mand for parking (e.g., by raising parking fees), and another sug- gested ways to use parking space more efficiently (e.g., by creating spaces for "Compact Cars Only"). The average participant failed to identify more than 70 percent of the best solutions identified by an expert panel. This failure is under- standable; we wouldn't expect any one person to be able to generate a database worth of solutions. However, when the individuals were asked to assess their own performance, they predicted that they had identified 75 percent. They thought they got the majority, but in real- ity they'd missed them. If people believe they know everything, it's hard to make the gap theory work. Fortunately, there are strategies for combating overcon- fidence. For instance, Nora Ephron's journalism teacher prevented overconfidence by causing the students' schemas of journalism to fail. He made them commit to their preconceived ideas and then pulled the rug out from under them. Making people commit to a prediction can help prevent overcon- UNEXPECTED 89 fidence. Eric Mazur, a physics professor at Harvard , came up with a pedagogical innovation known as "concept testing." Every