credentials allows people to try out an idea for themselves. 162 MADE TO STICK Rookie Orientation Let's shift to a different sports domain: the National Basketball Asso- ciation. Imagine that it's your job to educate incoming NBA rookies about the danger of AIDS. NBA players are young men—rookies are often under twenty-one. And they are sudden celebrities, with all the attention that goes with this new fame. They've heard about AIDS their entire lives, so the risk is not that they're unaware of AIDS; the risk is that the circumstances of their lives prompt them to drop their guard for a night. How do you make the threat of AIDS credible and immediate? Think through the possible sources of credibility. You could draw on external credibility—a celebrity/expert like Magic Johnson, or an antiauthority, such as an athlete in the terminal stages of AIDS. You could use statistics on a human scale (perhaps the odds of contracting AIDS from a single encounter with a stranger). You could use vivid details—an athlete could recount how his normal saf e-sex vigilance was eroded by a particularly wild night of partying. Any of these could be quite effective. But what if you wanted to move the source of cred- ibility inward, inside the heads of the players? Th e NBA came up with an ingenious way to do just that. A few weeks before the NBA season begins, all the rookie players are required to meet in Tarrytown, New York, for a mandatory orientation session. They're essentially locked in a hotel for six days: no pagers, no cell phones. The rookies are taught about life in the big leagues—everything from how to deal with the media to how to make sensible investments with their new riches. One year, despite the secrecy surrounding the orientation, a group of female fans staked out the location. On the first night of the orientation, they were hanging out in the hotel bar and restaurant, CREDIBLE 163 dressed to be noticed. The players were pleased by the attention. There was a lot of flirting, and the players made plans to meet up with some of the women later in the orientation. The next morning, the rookies dutifully showed up for their ses- sion. They were surprised to see the female fans in front of the room. The women introduced themselves again, one by one. "Hi, I'm Sheila and I'm HIV positive." "Hi, I'm Donna and I'm HIV positive." Suddenly the talk about AIDS clicked for the rookies. They saw how life could get out of control, how a single night could cause a lifetime of regret. Contrast the NBA's approach with the NFL's approach . At the NFL's orientation one year, league personnel had every rookie put a condom on a banana. No doubt eye-rolling was epidemic. Later, two women —former football groupies—talked about how th ey would try to seduce players, hoping to get pregnant. The women's session was powerful —it was a well-designed message. But what' s more likely to stick with someone: hearing about someone who fooled someone else, or being fooled yourself? How do we get people to believe our ideas? We've got to find a source of credibility to draw on. Sometimes the wellsprings are dry, as Barry Marshall discovered in his quest to cure the ulcer. Draw- ing on external credibility didn't work—the endorse ment of his su- pervisors and his institution in Perth didn't seem to be enough. Drawing on internal credibility didn't work—his car eful marshaling of data and detail still didn't help him clear the bar. In the end, what he did was draw on the audience's credibility—he es sentially "mod- eled" a testable credential by gulping a glass of bacteria. The implicit challenge was: See for yourself— if you drink this gunk, you'll get an ulcer, just like I did. It's not always obvious which wellspring of credibility we should 164 MADE TO STICK draw from. What Marshall showed so brilliantly was perseverance- knowing when it was time to draw on a different well. In this chapter we've seen that the most obvious sources of credibility—external val- idation and statistics—aren't always the best. A fe w vivid details might be more persuasive than a barrage of statistics. An antiauthority might work better than an authority. A single story that passes the Sinatra Test might overcome- a mountain of skepticism. It's inspirational to know that a medical genius like Marshall had to cli mb over the same hurdles with his idea as we'll have to climb with ours—and to see that he eventually prevailed, to the benefit of us all. EMOTIONAL Mother Teresa once said, "If I look at the mass, I will never act. If I look at the one, I will." In 2004, some researchers at Carnegie Mellon University decided to see whether most people act like Mother Teresa. The researchers wanted to see how people responded to an oppor- tunity to make a charitable contribution to an abstract cause versus a charitable contribution to a single person. They offered participants five dollars to complete a survey about their usage of various technol- ogy products. (The survey was irrelevant; the point was to ensure that the participants would have some cash on hand to co nsider donating to charity.) When people finished the survey, they received their payment in five one-dollar bills. They also received, unexpectedly, an envelope and a charity-request letter giving them an opportunity to donate some of their money to Save the Children, a charity that focuses on the well-being of children worldwide. The researchers tested two versions of the request letter. The first version featured statistics about the magnitude of the problems facing children in Africa, such as the following: 166 MADE TO STICK * Food shortages in Malawi are affecting more than 3 million children. * In Zambia, severe rainfall deficits have resulted in a 42 per- cent drop in maize production from 2000. As a result, an es- timated 3 million Zambians face hunger. * Four million Angolans—one third of the populatio n—have been forced to flee their homes. * More than 11 million people in Ethiopia need immediate food assistance. The other version of the letter gave information about a single young girl: * Any money that you donate will go to Rokia, a seven-year-old girl from Mali, Africa. Rokia is desperately poor a nd faces the threat of severe hunger or even starvation. Her life will be changed for the better as a result of your financial gift. With your support, and the support of other caring sponsors, Save the Children will work with Rokia's family and other mem- bers of the community to help feed and educate her and pro- vide basic medical care and hygiene education. The researchers gave participants one of the two di fferent letters, then left them alone. They chose how much money, if any, to put back into the envelope, then they sealed the envelope and handed it back to a researcher. On average, the people who read the statistics contributed $1.14. The people who read about Rokia contributed $2.38 — more than twice as much. It seems that most people have something in