etails judged Mrs. Johnson to be a more suitable parent (5.8 out of 10) than did ju- rors who heard the unfavorable arguments with vivid details (4.3 out of 10). The details had a big impact. We can take comfort, perhaps, in the fact that the swing wasn't more dramatic. (If the mother's fitness had dropped from eight to two, we might have had to worry a bit about our justice system.) But the jurors did make different judgments based on irrelevant vivid de- tails. So why did the details make a difference? Th ey boosted the credibility of the argument. If I can mentally see the Darth Vader toothbrush, it's easier for me to picture the boy diligently brushing his teeth in the bathroom, which in turn reinforces the notion that Mrs. Johnson is a good mother. What we should learn from urban legends and the Mrs. Johnson trial is that vivid details boost credibility. But what should also be added is that we need to make use of truthful, core details. We need to identify details that are as compelling and human as the "Darth Vader toothbrush" but more meaningful —detai ls that sym- bolize and support our core idea. In 2004, two Stanford Business School professors held a workshop with arts organizations in Washington, D.C. One exercise was de- 140 MADE TO STICK signed to make the arts leaders focus on the enduring principles of their organizations, the principles they would not compromise under any circumstances. One organization at the workshop was the Liz Lerman Dance Exchange (LLDE), "a company of dance a rtists that creates, performs, teaches, and engages people in making art." At the workshop, the leaders from the LLDE maintained that one of their core values was "diversity." "Come on," scoffed one of the professors, suspecting an exaggera- tion. "Everyone claims that they value diversity, but you're a dance company. You're probably filled with a bunch of twe nty-five-year-old dancers, all of them tall and thin. Some of them are probably people of color, but is that diversity?" Other people in the audience, unfa- miliar with the LLDE, nodded at this skeptical response. Peter DiMuro, the artistic director of the LLDE, responded with an example. "As a matter of fact," he said, "the longest-term member of our company is a seventy-three-year-old man named T homas Dwyer. He came to the LLDE after a full career working for the U.S. govern- ment when he retired in 1988, and had no previous d ance experience. He has now been with the LLDE for seventeen years." This detail— seventy-three-year-old Thomas Dwyer—si lenced the skepticism in the room. The professors experienced a rare moment of speechlessness. And there was a good reason that DiMuro could respo nd quickly with a vivid example. The reason is that diversity truly is a core value at the LLDE. It's part of the LLDE's organizational DNA. In 2002, Liz Lerman won a MacArthur "genius grant" for her work creating modern dance involving communities throughout the United States. In a dance project called Hallelujah/U.S.A., Lerman visited communities across the country and asked residents what made them thankful. Then she choreographed dances around those themes of praise. The final performances featured members of the local community: teenage female Hmong dancers in Mi nneapolis, Border collie owners in Virginia, and a group of six card-playing CREDIBLE 141 ladies from Burlington, Vermont, who'd missed only two of their weekly card games in forty years. Now, a brief aside to the eye-rolling skeptics out there, to whom a modern dance performance sounds as appealing as being buried alive: Whether or not you'd like to spend your weekends watching the gyrations of Border collie owners, you've got to ad mit that the LLDE is diverse. It's real diversity, not workspeak diversity. The example of Thomas Dwyer—the seventy-three-year- old for- mer government employee —is a vivid, concrete symbo l of a core or- ganization value. It's a symbol both to supporters and to the dancers themselves. No one wants to participate in a "dance project" and be the only balding, middle-aged guy on a stage full of Twiggys. The LLDE's claim that diversity was a core value gained credibility from the details of Dwyer's example, rather than from an external source. Beyond War The use of vivid details is one way to create internal credibility—to weave sources of credibility into the idea itself. Another way is to use statistics. Since grade school, we've been taught to support our argu- ments with statistical evidence. But statistics tend to be eye-glazing. How can we use them while still managing to engage our audience? Geoff Ainscow and other leaders of the Beyond War movement in the 1980s were determined to find a way to address the following par- adox: When we see a child running with scissors, we wince. We shout at her to stop. Yet when we read newspaper articles about nuclear weapons—which have the power to destroy millions of children —it provokes, at best, only a moment of dismay. Beyond War was started by a group of citizens who were alarmed by the arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union. At this point, the combined Soviet and American nuclear arsenals were sufficient to destroy the world multiple times. The Beyond War par- ticipants went door-to-door in their neighborhoods, hoping to galva- 142 MADE TO STICK nize a public outcry against the arms race. They struggled with the problem of how to make credible their belief that the arms race was out of control. How do you make clear to people the staggering de- structive capability of the world's nuclear stockpile? It's so intangible, so invisible. And yet telling stories, or providing details, seems inade- quate: Grappling with the nuclear arms race requires us to grapple with the scale of it. Scale relies on numbers. Beyond War would arrange "house parties," in which a host fam- ily invited a group of friends and neighbors over, along with a Beyond War representative to speak to them. Ainscow recounts a simple demonstration that the group used in its presentations. He always car- ried a metal bucket to the gatherings. At the appropriate point in the presentation, he'd take a BB out of his pocket and drop it into the empty bucket. The BB made a loud clatter as it rico cheted and set- tled. Ainscow would say, "This is the Hiroshima bomb." He then spent a few minutes describing the devastation of t he Hiroshima bomb—the miles of flattened buildings, the tens of thousands killed immediately, the larger number of people with burns or other long- term health problems. Next, he'd drop ten BBs into the bucket. The clatter was louder and more chaotic. "This is the firepower of the missiles on one U.S. or Soviet nuclear submarine," he'd say. Finally, he asked the attendees to close their eyes. He'd say, "This is the world's current arsenal of nuclear weapons." Then he poured 5,000 BBs into the bucket (one for every nuclear warhead in the world). The noise was startling, even terrifying. "The roar of the BBs went on and on," said Ainscow. "Afterward there was always dead silence." This