University, uses this exercise to illustrate the nature of memory. Each command to re- member seems to trigger a different mental activity. Remembering the capital of Kansas is an abstract exercise, unless you happen to live in Topeka. By contrast, when you think about "Hey Jude," you may hear Paul McCartney's voice and piano playing. (If the phrase "Hey Jude" drew a blank, please exchange this book for a Beatles album. You'll be happier.) No doubt the Mona Lisa memory conjured a visual image of that famously enigmatic smile. Remembering your childhood home might have evoked a host of memories—smells, sounds , sights. You might even have felt yourself running through your home, or re- membering where your parents used to sit. The definition of "truth" may have been a bit harder to sum- mon—you certainly have a sense of what "truth" mean s, but you probably had no preformulated definition to pluck out of memory, as with the Mona Lisa. You might have had to create a definition on the fly that seemed to fit with your sense of what "truth" means. The definition of "watermelon" might also have involved some mental gyrations. The word "watermelon" immediately evoked sense memories —the striped green rind and red fruit, the sweet smell and taste, the heft of a whole watermelon. Then you might have felt your gears switch as you tried to encapsulate these sense memories into a definition. Memory, then, is not like a single filing cabinet. It is more like Velcro. If you look at the two sides of Velcro material, you'll see that one is covered with thousands of tiny hooks and the other is covered CONCRETE 111 with thousands of tiny loops. When you press the two sides together, a huge number of hooks get snagged inside the loops , and that's what causes Velcro to seal. Your brain hosts a truly staggering number of loops. The more hooks an idea has, the better it will cling to memory. Your childhood home has a gazillion hooks in your brain. A new credit card number has one, if it's lucky. Great teachers have a knack for multiplying the hooks in a partic- ular idea. A teacher from Iowa named Jane Elliott once designed a message so powerful—tapping into so many different aspects of emo- tion and memory—that, twenty years later, her stude nts still remem- ber it vividly. Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes Martin Luther King, Jr., was assassinated on April 4, 1968. The next day, Jane Elliott, an elementary-school teacher in Iowa, found herself trying to explain his death to her classroom of third-graders. In the all- white town of Riceville, Iowa, students were familiar with King but could not understand who would want him dead, or wh y. Elliott said, "I knew it was time to deal with this in a concrete way, because we'd talked about discrimination since the first day of school. But the shooting of Martin Luther King, one of our 'Heroes of the Month' two months earlier, couldn't be explained to little third- graders in Riceville, Iowa." She came to class the next day with a plan: She aimed to make prejudice tangible to her students. At the start of class, she divided the students into two groups: brown-eyed kids and blue-eyed kids. She then made a shocking announcement: Brown-eyed kids were supe- rior to blue-eyed kids —"They're the better people in this room." The groups were separated: Blue-eyed kids were forced to sit at the back of the classroom. Brown-eyed kids were told that they were smarter. H2 MADE TO STICK They were given extra time at recess. The blue-eyed kids had to wear special collars, so that everyone would know their eye color from a distance. The two groups were not allowed to mix at recess. Elliott was shocked at how quickly the class was transformed. "I watched those kids turn into nasty, vicious, discriminating third- graders ... it was ghastly," she said. "Friendships seemed to dissolve instantly, as brown-eyed kids taunted their blue-eyed former friends. One brown-eyed student asked Elliott how she could be the teacher "if you've got dem blue eyes." At the start of class the following day, Elliott walked in and an- nounced that she had been wrong. It was actually the brown-eyed children who were inferior. This reversal of fortune was embraced in- stantly. A shout of glee went up from the blue-eyed kids as they ran to place their collars on their lesser, brown-eyed counterparts. On the day when they were in the inferior group, st udents de- scribed themselves as sad, bad, stupid, and mean. " When we were down," one boy said, his voice cracking, "it felt like everything bad was happening to us." When they were on top, the students felt happy, good, and smart. Even their performance on academic tasks changed. O ne of the reading exercises was a phonics card pack that the kids were supposed to go through as quickly as possible. The first day, when the blue-eyed kids were on the bottom, it took them 5.5 minutes. On the second day, when they were on top, it took 2.5 minutes. "W hy couldn't you go this fast yesterday?" Elliott asked. One blue-eyed girl said, "We had those collars on. . . ." Another student chimed in, "We couldn't stop thinking about those collars." Elliott's simulation made prejudice concrete—brutal ly concrete. It also had an enduring impact on the students' lives. Studies con- ducted ten and twenty years later showed that Elliott's students were significantly less prejudiced than their peers who had not been through the exercise. Students still remember the simulation vividly. A fifteen-year re- CONCRETE 113 union of Elliott's students broadcast on the PBS series Frontline re- vealed how deeply it had moved them. Ray Hansen, re membering the way his understanding changed from one day to the next, said, "It was one of the most profound learning experiences I 've ever had." Sue Ginder Rolland said, "Prejudice has to be worked out young or it will be with you all your life. Sometimes I catch myself [discriminat- ing], stop myself, think back to the third grade, and remember what it was like to be put down." Jane Elliott put hooks into the idea of prejudice. It would have been easy for her to treat the idea of prejudice the way other class- room ideas are treated—as an important but abstract bit of knowl- edge, like the capital of Kansas or the definition of "truth." She could have treated prejudice as something to be learned, like the story of a World War II battle. Instead, Elliott turned prejudice into an experi- ence. Think of the "hooks" involved: The sight of a friend suddenly sneering at you. The feel of a collar around your neck. The despair at feeling inferior. The shock you get when you look at your own eyes in the mirror. This experience put so many hooks into the students' memories that, decades later, it could not be forgotten. The Path to Abstraction: The Blueprint and the Machine Jane Elliott's simulation of prejudice is compelling evidence of the power of concreteness. But if concreteness is