29 dogged focus on reducing costs. Every airline would like to reduce costs, but Southwest has been doing it for decades. For this effort to succeed, the company must coordinate thousands of e mployees, ranging from marketers to baggage handlers. Southwest has a Commander's Intent, a core, that helps to guide this coordination. As related by James Carville and Paul Begala: Herb Kelleher [the longest-serving CEO of Southwest] once told someone, "I can teach you the secret to running this airline in thirty seconds. This is it: We are THE low-fare airline. Once you understand that fact, you can make any decision about this com- pany's future as well as I can. "Here's an example," he said. "Tracy from marketing comes into your office. She says her surveys indicate that the passengers might enjoy a light entree on the Houston to Las Vegas flight. All we offer is peanuts, and she thinks a nice chicken Caesar salad would be popular. What do you say?" The person stammered for a moment, so Kelleher resp onded: "You say, 'Tracy, will adding that chicken Caesar salad make us THE low-fare airline from Houston to Las Vegas? Bec ause if it doesn't help us become the unchallenged low-fare airline, we're not serving any damn chicken salad.'" Kelleher's Commander's Intent is "We are THE low-fare airline." This is a simple idea, but it is sufficiently useful that it has guided the actions of Southwest's employees for more than thirty years. Now, this core idea —"THE low-fare airline" —isn't the whole story, of course. For instance, in 1996 Southwest received 124,000 ap- plications for 5,444 openings. It's known as a great place to work, which is surprising. It's not supposed to be fun to work for penny- pinchers. It's hard to imagine Wal-Mart employees giggling their way through the workday. Yet somehow Southwest has pulled it off. Let's think about the 30 MADE TO STICK ideas driving Southwest Airlines as concentric circles. The central circle, the core, is "THE low-fare airline." But the very next circle might be "Have fun at work." Southwest's employees know that it's okay to have fun so long as it doesn't jeopardize the company's status as THE low-fare airline. A new employee can easily put these ideas together to realize how to act in unscripted situations. For instance, is it all right to joke about a flight attendant's birthday over the P.A.? Sure. Is it equally okay to throw confetti in her honor? Probably not— the confetti would create extra work for cleanup crews, and extra clean-up time means higher fares. It's the lighthearted business equivalent of the foot soldier who improvises based on the Comman- der's Intent. A well-thought-out simple idea can be amazingly power- ful in shaping behavior. A warning: In the future, months after you've put down this book, you're going to recall the word "Simple" as an element of the SUC- CESs checklist. And your mental thesaurus will fait hfully go digging for the meaning of "Simple," and it's going to come back with associ- ations like dumbing down, shooting for the lowest common denomi- nator, making things easy, and so on. At that moment, you've got to remind your thesaurus of the examples we've explored. "THE low- fare airline" and the other stories in this chapter aren't simple be- cause they're full of easy words. They're simple because they reflect the Commander's Intent. It's about elegance and prioritization, not dumbing down. Burying the Lead News reporters are taught to start their stories with the most impor- tant information. The first sentence, called the lead, contains the most essential elements of the story. A good lead c an convey a lot of information, as in these two leads from articles that won awards from the American Society of Newspaper Editors: SIMPLE 31 A healthy 17-year-old heart pumped the gift of life through 34- year-old Bruce Murray Friday, following a four-hour transplant operation that doctors said went without a hitch. Jerusalem, Nov. 4—A right-wing Jewish extremist sho t and killed Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin tonight as he departed a peace rally attended by more than 100,000 in Tel Aviv, throwing Israel's gov- ernment and the Middle East peace process into turmoil. After the lead, information is presented in decreasing order of im- portance. Journalists call this the "inverted pyramid" structure—the most important info (the widest part of the pyramid) is at the top. The inverted pyramid is great for readers. No matter what the reader's attention span—whether she reads only the lead or the entire story—the inverted pyramid maximizes the informatio n she gleans. Think of the alternative: If news stories were written like mysteries, with a dramatic payoff at the end, then readers who broke off in mid- story would miss the point. Imagine waiting until t he last sentence of a story to find out who won the presidential election or the Super Bowl. The inverted pyramid also allows newspapers to get out the door on time. Suppose a late-breaking story forces editors to steal space from other stories. Without the inverted pyramid, they'd be forced to do a slow, careful editing job on all the other articles, trimming a word here or a phrase there. With the inverted pyramid structure, they simply lop off paragraphs from the bottom of the other articles, knowing that those paragraphs are (by construction) the least impor- tant. According to one account, perhaps apocryphal, the inverted pyra- mid arose during the Civil War. All the reporters wanted to use mili- tary telegraphs to transmit their stories back home, but they could be cut off at any moment; they might be bumped by military personnel, 32 MADE TO STICK or the communication line might be lost completely— a common oc- currence during battles. The reporters never knew how much time they would get to send a story, so they had to send the most important information first. Journalists obsess about their leads. Don Wycliff, a winner of prizes for editorial writing, says, "I've always been a believer that if I've got two hours in which to write a story, the best investment I can make is to spend the first hour and forty-five minutes of it getting a good lead, because after that everything will come easily." So if finding a good lead makes everything else easy, why would a journalist ever fail to come up with one? A common mistake re- porters make is that they get so steeped in the details that they fail to see the message's core —what readers will find impo rtant or interest- ing. The longtime newspaper writer Ed Cray, a professor of commu- nications at the University of Southern California, has spent almost thirty years teaching journalism. He says, "The lon ger you work on a story, the more you can find yourself losing direction. No detail is too small. You just don't know what your story is anymore." This problem of losing direction, of missing the central story, is so common that journalists have given it its own name: Burying the lead. "Burying the lead" occurs when the journalist lets the most im- portant element of the story slip too far down in