shared by the relevant audience, as in the discussion of "high con- cept" in Hollywood. 60 Good metaphors are "generative": D. A. Schon, "G enerative Metaphor: A Perspective on Problem-Solving in Social Policy," in Metaphor and Thought, 2nd ed., edited by A. Ortony, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993). 60 Disney calls its employees "cast members": The e xamples from Disney are from: Disney Institute, Be Our Guest: Perfecting the Art of Customer Servic e (New York: Disney Editions, 2001). 2. Unexpected 63 A flight attendant named Karen Wood: It's no accident that Karen Wood was a flight attendant on Southwest Airlines. See Kevin Freiberg and Jackie Freiberg, Nuts! Southwest Airlines' Crazy Recipe for Business and Personal Success (Austin, Tex.: Bard Press, 1996), 209-10. 68 "the surprise brow": Paul Ekman and Wallace V. F riesen, Unmasking the Face: A Guide to Recognizing Emotions from Facial C lues (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1975). The role of surprise is an understudied topic in psychology, because it falls in the cracks between psychological disciplines. Cognitive researchers who study attention and learning find it too emotional; social psychologists who study emotions such as anger, fear, and disgust find it too cognitive. Yet you could make the case that surprise is the most impor- tant emotion because of its role in controlling attention and learning. 70 "PHRAUG and TAYBL": Bruce W. A. Whittlesea and L isa D. Williams, "The Discrepancy-Attribution Hypothesis II: Expectation, Uncertainty, Sur- prise, and Feelings of Familiarity," Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learn- ing, Memory, and Cognition 27 (2001): 14-33. 73 The Nordie who ironed: Jim Collins and Jerry I. Porras, Built to Last: Suc- cessful Habits of Visionary Companies (New York: HarperBusiness, 1994), 118. 75 Journalism 101: Ephron's account is in Lorraine Glennon and Mary Mohler, Those Who Can. . . Teach! Celebrating Teachers Who Make a Dif- ference (Berkeley, Calif.: Wildcat Canyon Press, 1999), 95- 96. 264 NOTES 77 Americans persist in thinking: Message 1 from the foreign aid Clinic is from www. ipjc.org/journal/faH02/nick_mele.htm. 78 Polls suggest that most Americans: See surveys conducted by the Program for International Policy Attitudes (PIPA) at the University of Maryland. 78 All of sub-Saharan Africa: As of 2001, sub-Saharan Africa and the entire re- gion of Asia each received a little more than $1 bi llion per year. Assuming that there are 280 million Americans, twelve soft drinks at a bargain price of $.33 equals $1.1 billion. One movie per year at $8 per movie ticket equals $2.24 billion. 80 How do we keep people's attention?: Arousing people's interest and keeping it are topics that have been discussed frequently among educational psychol- ogists who want to keep kids engaged in textbooks. Many of their findings are consistent with the topics we consider in this book: Kids are more engaged when texts evoke action and images (Concrete) or emotions (Emotional) or when something is novel (Unexpected, though in our view novelty is more likely to attract interest than to sustain it). Other topics go beyond what we discuss here. For example, kids are more engaged when material is personal- ized (e.g., they pay more attention to math problems that feature their names or the names of their friends), though this customization strategy is hard to apply in general. But most of the research in educational psychology has been limited in that it focuses only on sentence- or paragraph-level charac- teristics of texts rather than on broader questions, such as how do you get readers to read whole sections, chapters, or books. Cialdini's observations on mystery and Loewenstein's gap theory of curiosity would add a great deal to this important area of research. For a review of educational research, see Suzanne Hidi, "Interest and Its Contribution as a Mental Resource for Learning," Review of Educational Research 60 (1990): 549-71. 80 A few years ago, Robert Cialdini: Cialdini wrote his article for psychology professors, but it's excellent advice for all teachers. See Robert B. Cialdini, "What's the Best Secret Device for Engaging Student Interest? The Answer Is in the Title," journal of Social and Clinical Psychology 24 (2005): 22-29. 83 McKee says, "Curiosity": Robert McKee, Story: Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting (New York: ReganBooks, 1997). McKee also has good insight into the difference between gimmicky surprise and sur- prise that leads to resolution in movies: "We can always shock filmgoers by cutting to something it doesn't expect to see or away from something it ex- pects to continue." But he says that "true surprise" happens when a legitimate gap is suddenly revealed between what we expect and what actually happens. NOTES 265 The legitimacy comes from a rush of insight, revealing some truth that was previously hidden. 84 In 1994, George Loewenstein: George Loewenstein, "The Psychology of Curiosity: A Review and Reinterpretation," Psychological Bulletin 116 (1994): 75-98. This is a brilliant article that reviews decades of psychological research. 91 Heretofore, television has done: The Roone Arledge story is from his autobi- ography, Roone: A Memoir (New York: HarperCollins, 2003). The quote from the memo is on page 32. 93 In the rubble of Tokyo: The Sony history is from John Nathan, Sony: The Private Life (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1999). 96 "If people like curiosity": Loewenstein, "Psychology of Curiosity," 86. 3. Concrete 99 "Business Buzzword Generator": The buzzword generator was invented by W. Davis Folsom at the University of South Carolina-Aiken. See http:// highered.mcgraw-hill.com/sites/00725 37892/student_viewO/business_jargon _exercise.html. 100 Concreteness helps us avoid these problems: The advantages of concrete ideas show up across psychology. Concrete ideas are more memorable. Per- haps the most interesting summary of this evidence is from a book by David Rubin, a cognitive psychologist at Duke University who has spent years trying to understand how aspects of culture —epic sagas, b allads, and children's rhymes —propagate from person to person and generat ion to generation. His book Memory in Oral Traditions is a masterful summary of work across the humanities and psychology. Concrete elements are the most likely to survive transmission from one person to another because the y are the easiest to un- derstand and remember. See David C. Rubin, Memory in Oral Traditions: The Cognitive Psychology of Epic, Ballads, and Coun ting-Out Rhymes (Ox- ford: Oxford University Press, 1995). Concrete ideas are also more understandable. In education research, Mark Sadoski, Ernest Goetz, and colleagues have published a number of interesting papers illustrating that concrete ideas are more understandable, memorable, and, as a side benefit, more interesting. See Mark Sadoski, Ern- est T. Goetz, and Maximo Rodriguez, "Engaging Texts: Effects of Concrete- ness on Comprehensibility, Interest, and Recall in Four Text Types," Journal of Educational Psychology 92 (2000): 85-95. 266 NOTES 107 Yale researcher Eric Havelock: E. A. Havelock, Preface to Plato (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1963). 107 Two professors from Georgia State University: Carol W. Springer and A. Faye Borthick, "Business Simulation to Stage Cri tical Thinking in Intro- ductory Accounting: Rationale, Design, and Implemen tation," Issues in Ac- counting Education 19 (2004): 277-303. 111 Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes: The description of Jan e Elliott's antiprejudice simu- lation is taken from a PBS Frontline documentary, "A Class Divided." It's one of the most frequently requested programs in the station's history, winning an