to con- vict. Jurors felt most confident in their decision when both sides presented in story order; people like to understand both stories, to see the evidence clearly in their mind, and then decide. See Nancy Pennington and Reid Hastie, "Ex- planation-based Decision Making: Effects of Memory Structure on Judg- ment," Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition 14 (1988): 521-33. Stories also improve credibility. Researchers Melanie Green and Timothy Brock point out that attitudes formed by direct experience are more powerful, and stories give us the feeling of real experience. They show that people are more likely to be persuaded by a story when they are "transported" by it— when they feel more wrapped up in their mental simulation. See Melanie C. Green and Timothy C. Brock, "The Role of Transporta tion in the Persua- siveness of Public Narratives," Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 79 (2000): 701-21. 207 The new XER board configuration: Julian E. Orr, Talking About Machines: An Ethnography of a Modern Job (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996). The dicorotron story is on page 137. 209 "John put on his sweatshirt": This study is among dozens of studies that sup- port the importance of mental simulation. For a review, see Rolf A. Zwaan and Gabriel A. Radvansky, "Situation Models in Lang uage Comprehension and Memory," Psychological Bulletin 123 (1998): 162-85. Not only do peo- ple mentally simulate space, they also simulate time. In a story about people entering a movie theater, respondents are more likely to recognize a refer- ence to "the projectionist" if only ten minutes have elapsed in the story than if six hours have elapsed, even if both references are just a few sentences away on the page from the line about the movie theater. 210 no such thing as a passive audience: The best overview of the "active reader" research is provided by Richard Gerrig, a researcher in the field. See Experi- encing 'Narrative Worlds: On the Psychological Acti vities of Reading (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1988). Gerrig says that Samuel Cole- ridge was wrong to describe our ability to appreciate stories as the "suspension 274 NOTES of disbelief," because his quote implies that the default state of humans is skep- tical disbelief. In fact, the real state is the opposite. It's easy to get wrapped up in a story; it's hard to evaluate arguments skeptically, disbelieving them until they are proven. One of our favorite illustrations of the power of simulation is Gerrig's research on stories with well-known endings. When people are in the middle of a story, they often get so wrapped up in the simulation that they mo- mentarily act as though they'd forgotten an obvious ending. Watch out for that iceberg, Titanic! 212 Why does mental simulation work?: The tapping, Eiffel Tower, lemon juice, and other examples are from Mark R. Dadds, Dana H. Bovbejerg, William H. Redd, and Tim R. H. Cutmore, "Imagery in Human Classical Conditioning," Psychological Bulletin 122 (1997): 89-103. 213 A review of thirty-five studies: James E. Driskell, Carolyn Copper, and Aidan Moran, "Does Mental Practice Enhance Performance?" Journal of Applied Psychology 79 (1994): 481-92. 215 Dealing with Problem Students: Message 1 is fro m a tip sheet, "Tips for Dealing with Student Problem Behaviors," from the O ffice for Professional Development, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. See www .opd.iupui.edu/uploads/library/IDD/IDD6355.doc. Mes sage 2, by Alison Buckman, was originally posted to http://research.umbc.edu/~korenman/ wmst/disruptive_students2 .html. 219 When Fogle registered: Ryan Coleman, "Indiana U. Senior Gains New Per- spective on Life," Indiana Daily Student, April 29, 1999. 221 In 1999, Subway's sales: Performance statistics for Subway, Schlotzky's, and Quiznos are from Bob Sperber, "In Search of Fresh Ideas," Brandweek, Octo- ber 15, 2001, M54. 225 Blumkin is a Russian woman: Rose Blumkin is described by Warren Buffett in his 1983 shareholder letter (see www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/1983 .html). 226 These three basic plots: These results are fro m Chip's research at Stanford. After studying urban legends for a while —stories t hat frequently specialize in creating negative emotions such as fear, anger, or disgust—he asked whether there were stories that circulated because they produced positive emotions. The Chicken Soup for the Soul stories were the obvious place to start. The re- search on the frequencies of the three plots was done by giving raters the clas- sification system but no other information about the hypotheses of the research. Even though raters worked independently, pairs of raters who saw the same stories showed strong agreement on classifications. NOTES 275 Another Stanford study suggests that these three pl ots are a good way to en- sure that your stories are more inspiring. Students were given the assignment of finding a true story that would inspire their classmates, either from their own lives or from some public source. Later, their fellow students rated the stories on their ability to inspire —to make them f eel proud, excited, and de- termined. Stories that featured one of the three plots were much more likely to wind up in the top half of the stories. Of the stories that wound up in the top 10 percent, all had one or more of the three plots. Another study showed that each plot drives a specific form of activity. Peo- ple read through a selection of stories, one per day, and recorded how they felt after reading each story. Challenge plots made people want to set higher goals, to take on new challenges, to work harder and persist longer. Connec- tion plots made people want to work with others, to reach out and help them, and to be more tolerant. Creativity plots made people want to do something different, to be creative, to experiment with new approaches. Thus, the right stories not only tell us how to act, they operate as a kind of psychological battery pack, giving us the energy to take action. Notably, none of these stories was more likely to drive "feel good" activity. People weren't more likely to was to do something to enjoy themselves —to listen to good music, watch television, or eat a good meal; instead, they wanted to go out and accomplish something. Thus these stories drive productive action, not passive self-involvement. 227 In response, Jesus told a story: The Good Samaritan story is from the New International Version of the Bible, Luke 10:25-37. 229 Ingersoll-Rand: The story of the Grinder Team is told in Chapter 6 of Tom Peters, Liberation Management (New York: Knopf, 1992). 231 Stories at the World Bank: This section is based on two excellent books by Stephen Denning. His first book, about the role of storytelling in organiza- tions, is The Springboard: How Storytelling Ignites Action in Knowledge-Era Organizations (Boston: Butterworth-Heinemann, 2001). There are do zens of books available that talk about the role of storytelling in organizations and or- ganizational culture; The Springboard is the best book on the subject, and among the best business books of any kind. A follow-up book that describes a number of story plots other than springboard storie s is The Leader's Guide to Storytelling: Mastering the Art and Discipline of Business Narrative (San Francisco: Josey-Bass, 2005), The "corporate Siberi a" quote is from a talk by