shoes. Your company has been struggling, and you've got a team of brilliant people whom you need to inspire. You have the potential to lead them in one hundred different directions —rice cook ers or radios or telephones or whatever else R & D could dream up. B ut you're con- vinced that the idea of a transistor-based radio is the most promising path. Your core message, then, is the dream of a transistor radio. How do you make this message unexpected? How do you engage the cu- riosity and interest of your team? The concept of a "transistor radio" is probably not enough, in and of itself, to motivate your team. It's fo- cused more on technology than on value. A transistor radio—so what? What about tapping into some of the classic managerial themes? Competition: "Sony will beat Bell Labs in making a transistor radio work." Quality: "Sony will be the world's most respected manufac- turer of radios." Innovation: "Sony will create the most advanced ra- dios in the world." Here's the idea Ibuka proposed to his team: a "pocketable radio." It's hard, in retrospect, to comprehend the hubris of that idea — how utterly unexpected, how preposterous, it must have seemed the first time a Sony engineer heard it. Radios were not things you put into your pocket; they were pieces of furniture. At the time, radio fac- tories employed full-time cabinetmakers. UNEXPECTED 95 Furthermore, the idea that an upstart Japanese company would deliver such an innovation, when the brilliant minds at Bell Labs thought it impossible, was not credible. After all, the 1950s were a decade when "Made in Japan" was synonymous with sho ddy work- manship. But Sony engineers were talented and hungry. Ibuka's idea of a pocketable radio caught on internally and drove Son y through an in- credible period of growth. By 1957, Sony had grown to 1,200 em- ployees. In March 1957, just four years after Sony was grudgingly granted permission to tinker with transistors, the company released the TR-55, the world's first pocketable transistor radio. The TR-55 sold 1.5 million units and put Sony on the world map. A "pocketable radio" —isn't this simply a brilliant product idea, rather than a brilliant "sticky idea"? No, it is both, and both elements are indispensable. There's no question that someone in the world would have invented a transistor radio, even if Ibuka had decided to build the world's fanciest rice cooker. Transistor radios were an in- evitable technological progression. But the first transistor radios were nowhere near pocket-sized, and without Ibuka's unexpected idea his engineers might have stopped pursuing the technolog y long before it became small enough to be useful. Ibuka inspired years of effort be- cause he came up with an unexpected idea that challenged hundreds of engineers to do their best work. In May 1961, John F. Kennedy gave a speech to a spe cial session of Congress. It was a time when the Cold War dominated global pol- itics. The Cold War allowed for few ways to measure success —to record gains and losses—but, in one highly visible field, the United States was clearly lagging behind. That field was space. Four years earlier, the United States—which had pri ded itself as the most technologically advanced nation —was stunn ed when the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first satellite. The United States eventually responded with its own satellite launches, but the Soviet Union maintained its lead, racking up first after first. In April 1961, 96 MADE TO STICK Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first human in space. U.S. astronaut Alan Shepard followed a month later. In Kennedy's address to Congress, he outlined a series of requests to help the United States maintain its leadership during the Cold War. He asked for funds to achieve a number of strategic goals: to es- tablish the AID program for international development, to expand the NATO alliance, to build radio and television stations in Latin America and Southeast Asia, and to shore up civil defense. But he ended the speech on a curious note. His final proposal had nothing to do with international aid or civil defense. It was this: "I be- lieve that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, be- fore this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the earth ... if we make this judgment affirmatively, it will not be one man going to the moon, it will be an entire nation. For all of us must work to put him there." Two unexpected ideas. Both create surprise. Radios are pieces of furniture, not something to slip into a pocket. Men don't walk on the moon. It's a long way up. The air is thin. Both create insight. Rather than leading us along a plodding route from one incremental step to the next, the ideas give us a sudden, dramatic glimpse of how the world might unfold. And not just how but why. Both create knowledge gaps. Loewenstein, the author of the gap theory, says it's important to remember that knowledge gaps are painful. "If people like curiosity, why do they work to resolve it?" he asks. "Why don't they put mystery novels down before the last chap- ter, or turn off the television before the final inning of a close ball game?" Both of these unexpected ideas set up big knowledge gaps—but not so big that they seemed insurmountable. Kennedy didn't propose a "man on Mercury," and Ibuka didn't propose an "implantable radio." Each goal was audacious and provocative, but not paralyzing. Any engineer who heard the "man on the moon" speech must have UNEXPECTED 97 begun brainstorming immediately: "Well, first we'd need to solve this problem, then we'd need to develop this technology, then . . ." The vision of a pocketable radio sustained a company through a tricky period of growth and led it to become an internationally recog- nized player in technology. The vision of a man on the moon sus- tained tens of thousands of separate individuals, in dozens of organizations, for almost a decade. These are big, powerful, sticky ideas. When we're skeptical about our ability to get people's attention, or our ability to keep people's attention, we should draw inspiration from Kennedy and Ibuka. And, on a smaller scale, from Nora Ephron's journalism teacher and Nordstrom's managers. Unexpe ctedness, in the service of core principles, can have surprising longevity. CHAPTER 3 CONCRETE One hot summer day a Fox was strolling through an o rchard. He saw a bunch of Grapes ripening high on a grape vine. "Just the thing to quench my thirst," he said. Backing up a few paces, he took a run and jumped at the grapes, just missing. Turning around again, he ran faster and jumped again. Still a miss. Again and again he jumped, until at last he gave up out of exhaustion. Walking away with his nose in the air, he said: "I am sure they are sour." It is easy to despise what you can't get. The fable above, "The Fox and the Grapes," was written by Aesop. According to Herodotus, he was a slave (though he