for us to brainstorm. When they saw the size of the portfolio, it sparked certain questions: How much memory could you fit in that thing? Which PC components will shrink in the next few years, and which won't? What new technology would have to be invented to make it feasible? This same process was sparked in Sony's Japanese engineering team by the concept of a "pocketable radio." Concreteness creates a shared "turf on which people can collab- orate. Everybody in the room feels comfortable that they're tackling the same challenge. Even experts —even the Kleiner Perkins venture capitalists, the rock stars of the technology world —benefit from con- crete talk that puts them on common ground. Oral Rehydration Therapy Saves Children's Lives! the situation: Each year more than a million children in countries around the world die from dehydration caused by diarrhea. This problem can be prevented, at very low cost, by getting kids the right kind of fluids. How do you get people invested in this idea? 124 MADE TO STICK message 1: Here's an explanation from PSI, a nonprofit group that addresses health problems in developing countries: Diarrhea is one of the leading killers of young children in devel- oping countries, causing over 1.5 million child deaths annually. Diar- rhea itself is not the cause of death, but rather dehydration, the loss of body fluid. Approximately three quarters of the body is composed of water, and if fluid loss exceeds ten percent of total body fluid, vital organs collapse, followed by death. If an episode is severe, as with cholera, death can occur within just eight hours. To prevent life-threatening dehydration it is necessary to increase liquid intake in quantities sufficient to replenish the fluids and elec- trolytes lost with diarrhea. The best liquid for this purpose is a blend of electrolytes, sugar, and water, known as oral rehydration salts. ORS restores body fluid and electrolytes more rapidly than any other liquid, and does so even when the intestinal wall is compromised by disease. comments on message 1: Quick: How solvable is this problem? Sup- pose you were a health official in a developing nation. What would you do tomorrow to start saving kids? To be fair, this message appears on a Web page that describes what PSI has been doing to solve this problem. The text doesn't necessarily reflect how the organization might approach decision- makers to persuade them to act. The information is written in lan- guage that creates credibility; there is lots of scientific language and exposition. If the problem sounds too complex, however, that could deter people from trying to solve it. message 2: This message is from James Grant, who was the director of UNICEF for many years. Grant always traveled with a packet filled CONCRETE 125 with one teaspoon of salt and eight teaspoons of sugar—the ingredi- ents for Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORT) when mixed with a liter of water. When he met with the prime ministers of developing countries, he would take out his packet of salt and sugar and say, "Do you know that this costs less than a cup of tea and it can save hundreds of thou- sands of children's lives in your country?" comments on message 2: Quick: How solvable is this problem? What are you going to do tomorrow to start saving these children's lives? Grant's message brings you to the table, helps you bring your knowledge to bear. Maybe you're brainstorming ways of getting salt/sugar packets to schools. Maybe you're thinking about publicity campaigns to teach mothers the right ratio of salt and sugar. Grant is clearly a master of making ideas stick. He brings out a concrete prop and starts with an attention-grabbing unexpected con- trast: This packet costs less than a cup of tea, but it can have a real impact. Prime ministers spend their time thinking about elaborate, complex social problems—building infrastructure, constructing hos- pitals, maintaining a healthy environment—and suddenly here's a bag of salt and sugar that can save hundreds of thousands of chil- dren. Grant's message does sacrifice the statistics and the scientific de- scription that add credibility to the PSI message. But, as the director of UNICEF, he had enough credibility to keep people from questioning his facts. So Grant left the (uncontested) factual battle behind and fought the motivational battle. His bag of salt and sugar is the equiva- lent of Kaplan's maroon portfolio in the venture-capital presentation: It helps the members of the audience bring their expertise to the prob- lem. You can't see it and not start brainstorming about the possibilities. 126 MADE TO STICK Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - X Unexpected - X Concrete - X Credible X - Emotional X X Story - - punch line: This Clinic is one of our favorite before-and-after exam- ples in the book, because it shows how powerful a concrete idea can be. The moral is to find some way to invite people to the table, to help them bring their knowledge to bear. Here, a prop works better than a scientific description. Making Ideas Concrete How do we move toward concrete ideas for our own me ssages? We might find our own decisions easier to make if they are guided by the needs of specific people: our readers, our students, our customers. General Mills is one of the world's largest manufacturers of con- sumer products. Its brands include Pillsbury, Cheerios, Green Giant, Betty Crocker, Chex, and many others. One of the largest brands in the company, from a sales perspective, is Hamburger Helper. Melissa Studzinski, a twenty-eight-year-old from Michigan, joined General Mills in 2004 as Hamburger Helper's brand manager. When she joined the team, Hamburger Helper had been in a decade-long slump. The CEO, frustrated by the decline, announced that his number one goal for 2005 was to fix and grow the Hamburger CONCRETE 127 Helper brand. Studzinski, the newest person on the team, was eager to tackle the challenge. When she started the job, she was given three huge binders full of data and stats: sales and volume data, advertising-strategy briefs, prod- uct information, and market research on the brand's customers. The binders were difficult to pick up, let alone absorb into memory. She called them the "death binders." A few months later, Studzinski's team decided to pu t the data aside and try something new. They made plans to send members of the Hamburger Helper team—marketing, advertising, and R & D staffers —out into the homes of Hamburger Helper customers. The idea was known informally as "Fingertips," because the Gener al Mills employ- ees needed to have a picture of the brand's customers at their fingertips. A call went out for mothers (the predominant customers of Ham- burger Helper) who were willing to let strangers co me into their homes and gawk at them while they cooked. The team visited two to three dozen homes. Studzinski visited three homes, and the experi- ence stuck with her. "I had read and I could recite all the data about our customers," she says. "I knew their demographics by heart. But it was a very different experience to walk into a customer's home and experience a