the bonus to the employees: 1. Think of what that $1,000 means: a down payment on a new car or that new home improvement you've been wa nt- ing to make. 2. Think of the increased security of having that $1,000 in your bank account for a rainy day. 3. Think of what the $1,000 means: the company recognizes how important you are to its overall performance. I t doesn't spend money for nothing. When people are asked which positioning would appea l to them personally, most of them say No. 3. It's good for the self-esteem —and, as for No. 1 and No. 2, isn't it kind of obvious that $1,000 can be spent or saved? Most of us have no trouble at all visualizing ourselves spend- ing $1,000. (It's a bit less common to find people who like to visualize themselves saving.) Here's the twist, though: When people are asked which is the best positioning for other people (not them), they rank No. 1 most fulfill- ing, followed by No. 2. That is, we are motivated by self-esteem, but others are motivated by down payments. This single insight explains EMOTIONAL ,OJ almost everything about the way incentives are structured in most large organizations. Or consider another version of the same task. Let's say you're trying to persuade someone to take a new job in a department that's crucial to the company's success. Here are three possible pitches for the new job: 1. Think about how much security this job provides . It's so im- portant that the company will always need someone in this job. 2. Think about the visibility provided by this job . Because the job is so important, a lot of people will be watching your performance. 3. Think about how rewarding it will be to work in such a cen- tral job. It offers a unique opportunity to learn how the com- pany really works. The chasm between ourselves and others opens again. Most peo- ple say No. 3— an appeal to Learning—would be most motivating for them. Those same people predict that others would be most moti- vated by No. 1 (Security) and No. 2 (Esteem). In other words, a lot of us think everyone else is living in Maslow's basement—we may have a penthouse apartment, but eve ryone else is living below. The result of spending too much time in Maslow's base- ment is that we may overlook lots of opportunities to motivate people. It's not that the "bottom floors" —or the more tang ible, physical needs, to avoid the hierarchy metaphor—aren't motiv ational. Of course they are. We all like to get bonuses and to have job security and to feel like we fit in. But to focus on these needs exclusively robs us of the chance to tap more profound motivations. A great example of using these more profound motivations in- volves a retired member of the U.S. Army—not a batt lefield com- mander but a guy who ran a mess hall. 186 MADE TO STICK Dining in Iraq Army food is just about what you'd expect: bland, overcooked, and prepared in massive quantities. The dishes are not garnished with sprigs of parsley. The mess halls are essentially calorie factories, giv- ing the troops the fuel they need to do their jobs. An old Army prov- erb says, "An Army travels on its stomach." The Pegasus chow hall, just outside the Baghdad airport, has devel- oped a different reputation. At Pegasus, the prime rib is perfectly pre- pared. The fruit platter is a beautiful assortment of watermelon, kiwi fruit, and grapes. There are legends of soldiers driving to Pegasus from the Green Zone (the well-protected Americanized area of Baghdad), along one of the most treacherous roads in Iraq, just to eat a meal. Floyd Lee, the man in charge of Pegasus, was retired from his twenty-five-year career as a Marine Corps and Army cook when the Iraq war began. He came out of retirement to take the job. "The good Lord gave me a second chance to feed soldiers," he said. "I've waited for this job all my life, and here I am in Baghdad." Lee is well aware that being a soldier is relentlessly difficult. The soldiers often work eighteen-hour days, seven days a week. The threat of danger in Iraq is constant. Lee wants Pegasus to provide a respite from the turmoil. He's clear about his leadership mission: "As I see it, I am not just in charge of food service; I am in charge of morale." Think about that: I am in charge of morale. In terms of Maslow's hierarchy, Lee is going for Transcendence. This vision manifests itself in hundreds of small actions taken by Lee's staff on a daily basis. At Pegasus, the white walls of the typical mess hall are covered with sports banners. There ar e gold treatments on the windows, and green tablecloths with tassels. The harsh fluores- cent lights have been replaced by ceiling fans with soft bulbs. The servers wear tall white chefs hats. The remarkable thing about Pegasus's reputation for great food is that Pegasus works with exactly the same raw materials that everyone EMOTIONAL 187 else does. Pegasus serves the same twenty-one-day Army menu as other dining halls. Its food comes from the same suppliers. It's the attitude that makes the difference. A chef sorts through the daily fruit ship- ment, culling the bad grapes, selecting the best parts of the water- melon and kiwi, to prepare the perfect fruit tray. At night, the dessert table features five kinds of pie and three kinds of cake. The Sunday prime rib is marinated for two full days. A cook from New Orleans or- ders spices that are mailed to Iraq to enhance the entrees. A dessert chef describes her strawberry cake as "sexual and sensual"—two ad- jectives never before applied to Army food. Lee realizes that serving food is a job, but improving morale is a mission. Improving morale involves creativity and e xperimentation and mastery. Serving food involves a ladle. One of the soldiers who commute to Pegasus for Sund ay dinner said, "The time you are in here, you forget you're in Iraq." Lee is tap- ping into Maslow's forgotten categories—the Aesthet ic, Learning, and Transcendence needs. In redefining the mission of his mess hall, he has inspired his co-workers to create an oasis in the desert. The Popcorn Popper and Political Science Even John Caples, the mail-order copywriter, admits that there are powerful motivations outside narrow self-interest. He tells a story about a marketer who was promoting a new educational film on fire safety that was intended to help firemen. This marketer had been taught that there are three basic consumer appeals: sex, greed, and fear. The marketer's instinct was that greed would work best in this sit- uation. He came up with a couple of ideas for free giveaways that would persuade firemen to check out the film. He began calling local units to figure out which giveaway would have the most appeal. When he called, he would describe the new film and ask, "Would you like to see the film for possible purchase for