as unhealthy as a whole day's worth of fatty foods! We can use surprise —an emotion whose function is t o in- crease alertness and cause focus —to grab people's attention. But sur- prise doesn't last. For our idea to endure, we must generate interest and curiosity. How do you keep students engaged during the forty- eighth history class of the year? We can engage peo ple's curiosity over a long period of time by systematically "opening gaps" in their knowl- edge—and then filling those gaps. INTRODUCTION 17 PRINCIPLE 3: CONCRETENESS How do we make our ideas clear? We must explain our ideas in terms of human actions, in terms of sensory information. This is where so much business communication goes awry. Mis sion state- ments, synergies, strategies, visions—they are ofte n ambiguous to the point of being meaningless. Naturally sticky ideas are full of con- crete images —ice-filled bathtubs, apples with razo rs—because our brains are wired to remember concrete data. In prov erbs, abstract truths are often encoded in concrete language: "A bird in hand is worth two in the bush." Speaking concretely is the only way to en- sure that our idea will mean the same thing to everyone in our audi- ence. PRINCIPLE 4: CREDIBILITY How do we make people believe our ideas? When the former sur- geon general C. Everett Koop talks about a public-health issue, most people accept his ideas without skepticism. But in most day-to-day situations we don't enjoy this authority. Sticky ideas have to carry their own credentials. We need ways to help people test our ideas for themselves — a "try before you buy" philosophy for the world of ideas. When we're trying to build a case for something, most of us in- stinctively grasp for hard numbers. But in many cases this is exactly the wrong approach. In the sole U.S. presidential debate in 1980 be- tween Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter, Reagan could have cited innumerable statistics demonstrating the sluggishness of the econ- omy. Instead, he asked a simple question that allowed voters to test for themselves: "Before you vote, ask yourself if you are better off today than you were four years ago." PRINCIPLE 5: EMOTIONS How do we get people to care about our ideas? We ma ke them feel something. In the case of movie popcorn, we make them feel dis- 18 MADE TO STICK gusted by its unhealthiness. The statistic "37 grams" doesn't elicit any emotions. Research shows that people are more likel y to make a char- itable gift to a single needy individual than to an entire impoverished region. We are wired to feel things for people, not for abstractions. Sometimes the hard part is finding the right emotion to harness. For instance, it's difficult to get teenagers to quit smoking by instilling in them a fear of the consequences, but it's easier to get them to quit by tapping into their resentment of the duplicity of Big Tobacco. PRINCIPLE 6: STORIES How do we get people to act on our ideas? We tell s tories. Firefighters naturally swap stories after every fire, and by doing so they multiply their experience; after years of hearing stories, they have a richer, more complete mental catalog of critical situations they might con- front during a fire and the appropriate responses to those situations. Research shows that mentally rehearsing a situation helps us perform better when we encounter that situation in the physical environment. Similarly, hearing stories acts as a kind of mental flight simulator, preparing us to respond more quickly and effectivel y. "Those are the six principles of successful ideas. To summarize, here's our checklist for creating a successful idea: a Simple Un- expected Concrete Credentialed Emotional Story. A clever observer will note that this sentence can be compacted into the acronym SUCCESs. This is sheer coincidence, of course. (Oka y, we admit, SUCCESs is a little corny. We could have changed "S imple" to "Core" and reordered a few letters. But, you have to admit, CCUCES is less memorable.) No special expertise is needed to apply these principles. There are no licensed stickologists. Moreover, many of the principles have a commonsense ring to them: Didn't most of us already have the intu- INTRODUCTION 19 ition that we should "be simple" and "use stories"? It's not as though there's a powerful constituency for overcomplicated, lifeless prose. But wait a minute. We claim that using these principles is easy. And most of them do seem relatively commonsensical. So why aren't we deluged with brilliantly designed sticky ideas? Why is our life filled with more process memos than proverbs? Sadly, there is a villain in our story. The villain is a natural psy- chological tendency that consistently confounds our ability to create ideas using these principles. It's called the Curse of Knowledge. (We will capitalize the phrase throughout the book to give it the drama we think it deserves.) Tappers and Listeners In 1990, Elizabeth Newton earned a Ph.D. in psychology at Stanford by studying a simple game in which she assigned peo ple to one of two roles: "tappers" or "listeners." Tappers received a list of twenty-five well-known songs, such as "Happy Birthday to You" a nd "The Star- Spangled Banner." Each tapper was asked to pick a song and tap out the rhythm to a listener (by knocking on a table). The listener's job was to guess the song, based on the rhythm being tapped. (By the way, this experiment is fun to try at home if there's a good "listener" candidate nearby.) The listener's job in this game is quite difficult. Over the course of Newton's experiment, 120 songs were tapped out. Listeners guessed only 2.5 percent of the songs: 3 out of 120. But here's what made the result worthy of a dissertation in psy- chology. Before the listeners guessed the name of the song, Newton asked the tappers to predict the odds that the listeners would guess correctly. They predicted that the odds were 50 per cent. The tappers got their message across 1 time in 40, but they thought they were getting their message across 1 ti me in 2. Why? 20 MADE TO STICK When a tapper taps, she is hearing the song in her head. Go ahead and try it for yourself—tap out "The Star-Spa ngled Banner." It's impossible to avoid hearing the tune in your head. Meanwhile, the listeners can't hear that tune —all they can he ar is a bunch of dis- connected taps, like a kind of bizarre Morse Code. In the experiment, tappers are flabbergasted at how hard the lis- teners seem to be working to pick up the tune. Isn't the song obvious? The tappers' expressions, when a listener guesses "Happy Birthday to You" for "The' Star-Spangled Banner," are priceless: How could you be so stupid? It's hard to be a tapper. The problem is that tappers have been given knowledge (the song title) that makes it impossible for them to imagine what it's like to lack that knowledge. When they're tapping, they can't imagine what it's like for the listeners to hear isolated taps rather than a song. This is the Curse