by the Ad Council). The template also pops up spontaneously in naturally sticky ideas—for example, the legend that Newton discovered gravity when an apple fell on his head. (For the other templates, see the endnotes.) The researchers also tried to use their six templates to classify 200 other ads—from the same publications and for the sa me types of products—that had not received awards. Amazingly, w hen the re- searchers tried to classify these "less successful" ads, they could clas- sify only 2 percent of them. INTRODUCTION 23 The surprising lesson of this story: Highly creative ads are more predictable than uncreative ones. It's like Tolstoy's quote: "All happy families resemble each other, but each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." All creative ads resemble one another, but each loser is uncreative in its own way. But if creative ads consistently make use of the same basic set of templates, perhaps "creativity" can be taught. Perhaps even novices— with no creative experience—could produce better id eas if they un- derstood the templates. The Israeli researchers, curious about the ability to teach creativity, decided to see just how far a template could take someone. They brought in three groups of novices and gave each group some background information about three products: a shampoo, a diet-food item, and a sneaker. One group received the background in- formation on the products and immediately started generating ads, with no training. An experienced creative director, who didn't know how the group had been trained, selected its top fifteen ads. Then those ads were tested by consumers. The group's ads stood out: Con- sumers rated them as "annoying." (Could this be the long-awaited ex- planation for the ads of local car dealerships?) A second group was trained for two hours by an expe rienced creativity instructor who showed the participants how to use a free- association brainstorming method. This technique is a standard method for teaching creativity; it's supposed to br oaden associations, spark unexpected connections, and get lots of creative ideas on the table so that people can select the very best. If you've ever sat in a class on brainstorming great ideas, this method is probably the one you were taught. Again, the fifteen best ads were selected by the same creative di- rector, who didn't know how the group had been trained, and the ads were then tested by consumers. This group's ads were rated as less an- noying than those of the untrained group but no more creative. The final group was trained for two hours on how to use the six 24 MADE TO STICK creative templates. Once again, the fifteen best ads were selected by the creative director and tested with consumers. Suddenly these nov- ices sprouted creativity. Their ads were rated as 50 percent more cre- ative and produced a 55 percent more positive attitude toward the products advertised. This is a stunning improvement for a two-hour investment in learning a few basic templates! It appears that there are indeed systematic ways to produce creative ideas. What this Israeli research team did for advertisements is what this book does for your ideas. We will give you sug gestions for tailoring your ideas in a way that makes them more creative and more effective with your audience. We've created our checklist of six prin- ciples for precisely this purpose. But isn't the use of a template or a checklist confining? Surely we're not arguing that a "color by numbers" approac h will yield more creative work than a blank-canvas approach? Actually, yes, that's exactly what we're saying. If you want to spread your ideas to other people, you should work within the confines of the rules that have allowed other ideas to succeed over time. You want to invent new ideas, not new rules. This book can't offer a foolproof recipe. We'll admit it up front: We won't be able to show you how to get twelve-year -olds to gossip about mitosis around the campfire. And in all likelihood your process-improvement memo will not circulate decades from now as a proverb in another culture. But we can promise you this: Regardless of your level of "natural creativity," we will show you how a little focused effort can make al- most any idea stickier, and a sticky idea is an idea that is more likely to make a difference. All you need to do is understand the six princi- ples of powerful ideas. SIMPLE Every move an Army soldier makes is preceded by a staggering amount of planning, which can be traced to an original order from the president of the United States. The presid ent orders the Joint Chiefs of Staff to accomplish an objective, and the Joint Chiefs set the parameters of the operation. Then the orders and plans begin to cascade downward—from generals to colonels to captains. The plans are quite thorough, specifying the "scheme of maneu- ver" and the "concept of fires"—what each unit will do, which equip- ment it will use, how it will replace munitions, and so on. The orders snowball until they accumulate enough specificity to guide the ac- tions of individual foot soldiers at particular moments in time. The Army invests enormous energy in its planning, a nd its processes have been refined over many years. The system is a marvel of communication. There's just one drawback: The plans often turn out to be useless. "The trite expression we always use is No plan survives contact with the enemy," says Colonel Tom Kolditz, the head of the behav- ioral sciences division at West Point. "You may start off trying to fight your plan, but the enemy gets a vote. Unpredictable things happen— the weather changes, a key asset is destroyed, the enemy responds in 26 MADE TO STICK a way you don't expect. Many armies fail because they put all their emphasis into creating a plan that becomes useless ten minutes into the battle." The Army's challenge is akin to writing instructions for a friend to play chess on your behalf. You know a lot about the rules of the game, and you may know a lot about your friend and the opponent. But if you try to write move-by-move instructions you'll fail. You can't possi- bly foresee more than a few moves. The first time t he opponent makes a surprise move, your friend will have to throw out your care- fully designed plans and rely on her instincts. Colonel Kolditz says, "Over time we've come to unde rstand more and more about what makes people successful in complex opera- tions." He believes that plans are useful, in the sense that they are proof that planning has taken place. The planning process forces peo- ple to think through the right issues. But as for the plans themselves, Kolditz says, "They just don't work on the battlefield." So, in the 1980s the Army adapted its planning process, inventing a concept called Commander's Intent (CI). CI is a crisp, plain-talk statement that appears at the top of every order, specifying the plan's goal, the desired end-state of an opera- tion. At high levels of the Army, the CI may be relatively abstract: