sense of drama and a sense of movement. We can't help but imagine the actions of the two players trying to score a goal, being op- posed at every stage by the rest of their team. Why does the analogy work? It relies on our schema of soccer teams and the fact that this schema is somehow cleaner, more well- defined, than our schemas of organizations. It's more vivid to think of a lack of cooperation on a soccer team—where teamwo rk is para- mount—than in a corporation. And this is exactly Co vey's point: Cor- porations should operate like teams, but they don't. Humanizing the statistics gives the argument greater wallop. As another example of the human-scale principle, take a mun- dane situation: figuring out whether a particular technological up- grade is worth the money. One example comes from Ci sco, when it had to decide whether to add a wireless network for its employees. The cost of maintaining a wireless network was esti mated at $500 per year per employee. That price sounds hefty—on the o rder of adding dental or vision insurance for all employees. But it's not a benefit, it's an investment. So how do you compute the value of an investment? You've got to decide whether you can get $501 worth of additional value from each employee each year after adding the network. One Cisco employee figured out a better way to think about the investment: "If you believe you can increase an employee's produc- 146 MADE TO STICK tivity by one to two minutes a day, you've paid back the cost of wire- less." On this scale, the investment is much easier to assess. Our intu- ition works at this scale. We can easily simulate scenarios where employees can save a few minutes from wireless access—for instance, sending someone a request for a forgotten document during a critical meeting. Statistics aren't inherently helpful; it's the scale and context that make them so. Not many people have an intuition about whether wireless networking can generate $500 worth of marginal value per employee per year. The right scale changes everything. We saw that Concreteness allows people to bring their knowledge to bear- remember HP's simulation of a family at Disney World? Similarly, the human-scale principle allows us to bring our intuition to bear in assessing whether the content of a message is credible. Statistics are a good source of internal credibility when they are used to illustrate relationships. In the introduction of this book, we discussed the example of the CSPI's campaign against saturated- fat-loaded movie popcorn. The relevant statistic was that a medium- sized bag of popcorn had 37 grams of saturated fat. So what? Is that good or bad? Art Silverman, of the CSPI, cleverly placed the popcorn's saturated-fat content in a relevant context for comparison. He said that one bag of popcorn was equivalent to a whole day's worth of un- healthy eating. Silverman knew that most people would be appalled by this finding. What if Silverman had been a sleazebag? He could ha ve picked a food item that was notoriously unhealthy but relatively low in satu- rated fat, such as lollipops. "One bag of popcorn has the fat equiva- lent of 712,000 lollipops!" (Or an infinite number of lollipops, since they're fat-free.) This statistic is sleazy because it draws its power from CREDIBLE 147 sleight of hand involving different senses of unhealthy food. A sleazy movie-theater executive, to retaliate, might have changed the do- main of comparison from saturated fat to some positive attribute of corn: "A bag of popcorn has as much Vitamin J as 71 pounds of broc- coli!" (We made this up.) These possibilities are examples of why writing abo ut statistics filled us with anxiety. Particularly in the realm of politics, tinkering with statistics provides lucrative employment for untold numbers of issue advocates. Ethically challenged people with lots of analytical smarts can, with enough contortions, make almost an y case from a given set of statistics. Of course, let's also remember that it's easier to lie without statis- tics than with them. Data enforces boundaries. Unless people are un- ethical enough to make up data, the reality of the data constrains them. That's a good thing, but it still leaves a lot of wiggle room. So what about the rest of us, who aren't spinmeisters? What do we do? We will still be tempted to put the best possible spin on our sta- tistics. All of us do it. "I scored sixteen points for the church basketball team tonight!" (Not mentioned: twenty-two missed shots and the loss of the game.) "I'm five feet six." (Not mentioned: The three-inch heels.) "Revenue was up 10 percent this year, so I think I deserve a bonus." (Not mentioned: Profits tanked.) When it comes to statistics, our best advice is to use them as in- put, not output. Use them to make up your mind on an issue. Don't make up your mind and then go looking for the numbers to support yourself—that's asking for temptation and trouble. But if we use sta- tistics to help us make up our minds, we'll be in a great position to share the pivotal numbers with others, as did Geoff Ainscow and the Beyond War supporters. 148 MADE TO STICK Dealing with Shark Attack Hysteria the situation: Every few years the media go frothy over shark at- tacks. Shark attacks, however, remain extremely rare and do not vary much from one year to the next. So why do they consume so much media and public attention? The answer is that shark attacks spawn terrifying, dream-haunting stories like the following, from The Oprah Winfrey Show: Oprah: Bethany Hamilton loved to ride the waves. Surfing daily since she was 8 years old, Bethany was such a phenom, people said she had salt water running through her veins. At the young age of 13, Bethany was a rising star on the surfing circuit and had become a local celebrity, but what happened next landed Bethany in headlines around the world. It was early morning. Bethany was in the ocean lying on her board with her arm dangling in the water. Suddenly, a deadly fif- teen-foot tiger shark seized her arm. Violently, he jerked and yanked it until her arm was ripped right off of her small body. Sec- onds later the shark and her entire arm were gone, and Bethany was left alone on her board surrounded by bloody water. Imagine that you are forced to combat these vivid stories. Maybe you're the publicity director of the Save the Sharks Foundation, or maybe you're trying to convince your junior high school daughter that it's okay to go to the beach. How do you do it? You've got the truth on your side—attacks are very rare—but that's no guarantee that people will believe you. So what source of credibility do you tap to get people to believe you? CREDIBLE 149 message 1: We based this message on statistics published by the Florida Museum of Natural History: You're more likely to drown on a beach in an area protected by a lifeguard than you are to be attacked by