What made kids care was not health concerns but anticorporate rebellion. Use the power of association. The need to fight semantic stretch: the diluted meaning of "relativity" and why "unique" isn't unique anymore. Transforming "sportsmanship" into "honoring the game." Appeal to self-interest (and not just base self-interest). Mail-order ads— "They laughed when I sat down at the piano. . . ." WIIFY. Cable television in Tempe: Visualizing what it could do for you. Avoid Maslow's basement: our false assumption that other people are baser than we are. Floyd Lee and his Iraq mess tent : "I'm in charge of morale." Appeal to identity. The firemen who rejected the popcom popper. Underst and how people make decisions based on identity. (Who am I? What k ind of situation is this? And what do people like me do in this kind of situation?) Clinic: Why study algebra? Don't mess with Texas: Texans don't litter. Don't forget the Curse of Knowledge—don't assume, like th e defenders of the duo piano, that others care at the same level that you do. 6. Stories Get people to act. Stories as simulation (tell people how to act). The day the heart monitor lied: how the nurse acted . Shop talk at Xerox: how the repairman acted. Visualizing "how I got her e": simulating prob- lems to solve them. Use stories as flight simulators. Clinic: Dealing with problem students. EASY REFERENCE GUIDE 257 Stories as inspiration (give people energy to act). Jared, the 425-pound fast-food dieter. How to spot inspiring stories. Look for three key plots: Challenge (to overcome obstacles), Connection (to g et along or reconnect), Creativity (to inspire a new way of thinking). Tell a springboard story: a story that helps people see how an existing probl em might change. Stephen Denning at the World Bank: a health worker in Zambia. You can extract a moral from a story, but y ou can't extract a story from a moral. Why speakers got mad when peopl e boiled down their presentations to stories. What Sticks. Use what sticks. Nice guys finish last. Elementary, my dear Watson. It's the economy, stu- pid. The power of spotting. Why good speaking skills aren't necessarily good sticking skills: Stanford students and the spe ech exercise. A final warning about the Curse of Knowledge. Remember how SUCCESs helps people to: Pay attention Unexpected Understand and remember Concrete Believe and agree Credible Care Emotional Act Stories Simple helps at many stages. Most important, it tells you what to say. Symptoms and solutions: For practical guidance, see pages 247-49. ]ohn F. Kennedy versus Floyd Lee: How normal people , in normal situa- tions, can make a profound difference with their sticky ideas. Introduction: What Sticks? 4 "Comprehensive community building": Tony Proscio, "In Other Words: A Plea for Plain Speaking in Foundations," Edna McCon nell Clark Founda- tion, 2000. 6 The Truth About Movie Popcorn: A good account of the popcorn story is in Howard Kurtz, "The Great Exploding Popcorn Expose," Washington Post, May 12, 1994, Cl. 13 Who Spoiled Halloween?: The story of the contaminated Halloween candy legend is told in Joel Best and Gerald T. Horiuchi, "The Razor Blade and the Apple: The Social Construction of Urban Legends," Social Forces 32 (1985): 488-99. Joel Best is one of a group of sociologists who study the "construc- tion" of social problems. Social concerns about various problems such as drunk driving, drug abuse, or poisoned Halloween candy do not always match the underlying incidence of problems, and sociologists have tried to understand how social problems become defined as "p roblems." For another interesting read on this topic, see Joel Best, Random Violence: How We Talk About New Crimes and New Victims (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1999). 19 the Curse of Knowledge: The Curse of Knowledge concept comes from C. F. Camerer, G. Loewenstein, and M. Weber, "The C urse of Knowledge in Economic Settings: An Experimental Analysis," Journal of Political Economy 97 (1989): 1232-54. The Curse of Knowledge increase s as people gain more expertise. Pamela Hinds asked experts (salespeople at a cellular company) to 260 NOTES predict how long novice cell-phone users would take to learn to perform var- ious tasks (e.g., storing a greeting on voice mail or saving some messages and deleting others). Experts dramatically underestimated the amount of time it would take novice users to accomplish the tasks (i.e., they estimated that it would take thirteen minutes to perform functions that actually took thirty- three minutes), and their estimates did not improve when they were specifi- cally asked to think about the problems they encountered while they were originally learning. See Pamela J. Hinds, "The Curse of Expertise: The Ef- fects of Expertise and Debiasing Methods on Predict ing Novice Perfor- mance," Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied 5 (1999): 205-21. See also brilliant work in psychology by Boas Keysar, Linda E. Ginzel, and Max H. Bazerrnan, "States of Affairs and States of Mind: The Effect of Knowledge on Beliefs," Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processe s 64 (1995): 283-93. Ironically, the Curse of Knowledge has been well docu- mented in economic and market settings, where peopl e should have the greatest incentives to try to overcome it (see http://curse-of-knowledge .behaviouralfinance.net/). If you can't overcome the Curse of Knowledge when it's costing you lots of money, it's going to be even harder to detect and overcome it in day-to-day situations. 19 In 1990, Elizabeth Newton: L. Newton, "Overconfidence in the Communi- cation of Intent: Heard and Unheard Melodies," Ph.D . diss., Stanford Uni- versity, 1990. 22 In 1999, an Israeli research team: Jacob Goldenb erg, David Mazursky, and Sorin Solomon, "The Fundamental Templates of Qualit y Ads," Marketing Science 18 (1999): 333-51. The Pictorial Analogy template features extreme analogies rendered visually. For instance, a Nike ad is shot from the perspec- tive of someone jumping from a tall building. A group of firemen are on the street below, preparing to cushion the jumper's fall with an oversized Nike sneaker. The tagline reads, "Something soft between you and the pavement." The majority of the winners are composed of Pictorial Analogy and Extreme Consequences. The other templates were Extreme Situations (in which a product is shown performing under unusual circumstances or in which a product's attribute is exaggerated to the extreme), Competition (in which a product is shown winning in competition with another product, often in an unusual usage situation), Interactive Experiments (where listeners interact with the product directly—see "Testable Credentials " in Chapter 4), and Di- mensionality Alteration (e.g., a time leap that shows the long-run implica- tions of a decision). NOTES 261 1. Simple 29 Herb Kelleher... once told: James Carville and Paul Begala, Buck Up, Suck Up, and Come Back When You Foul Up (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2002), 88. This is one of the most interesting books we've found about the dy- namics of political campaigns, and there's a chapter on how to communicate in a political campaign that echoes several of the principles we cover in this book: tell stories ("facts tell but stories sell"), be emotional, and be unique (their version of "Unexpected"). 31 A healthy 17-year-old heart: Jonathan Bor, "It F luttered and Became