trophy, they'd have to run laps. Thomp- son adds, "Sportsmanship seems like it is mostly about not doing something bad: 'Don't yell at officials. Don't break the rules.' But it's not enough to simply refuse to do bad things. We need to expect much more of participants in youth sports. Unfortunately, 'Be a good sport!' is not the rallying cry that we need to transform youth sports." Everyone enjoys hearing about real examples of good sportsman- ship. Thompson uses the example of Lance Armstrong, who reacted unexpectedly when one of his chief opponents, Jan Ullrich, crashed during the Tour de France. Instead of taking advantage of this lucky break to increase his lead, Armstrong slowed down a nd waited for Ullrich to remount. He later said that he rode better when he was competing with a great athlete like Ullrich. That's sportsmanship. Thompson knew that people still admired the underlying ideals of sportsmanship. Parents did want their kids to learn respect and man- ners from athletics. Coaches did want to be mentors, not just victori- ous taskmasters. Kids did want their teams to be respected by others. All three groups sometimes slipped up and acted like jerks. But Thompson saw that the need and the desire for sportsmanship re- mained, even though the term "sportsmanship" had lo st its ability to motivate good behavior. "Sportsmanship" had been stretched too far. Like "r elativity," it had migrated far afield from its original meaning. It used to refer to the kind of behavior that Lance Armstrong showed Ja n Ullrich. But over time the term was stretched to include unimpressive, nonchival- rous behavior, like losing without whining too much or making it through an entire game without assaulting a referee. Thompson and the PCA needed a different way of encouraging people, not just to avoid bad behavior but to embrace good behavior. 176 MADE TO STICK They called it Honoring the Game. People care about sports, they care about the Game. It's a way of making the point that the Game and its integrity are larger than the individual participants. "Honoring the Game" is a kind of sports patriotism. It implies that you owe your sport basic respect. Armstrong wasn't being a "good sport"; he was Honoring the Game. And Honoring the Game also works for people other than players. It reminds anyone that sports is a civic institution. It's unseemly to mess with an institution. It's dishonorable. Is there any proof that Honoring the Game works? Co nsider the data gathered by a basketball league in Dallas, Texas: "In the 2002 basketball season, on average there was a technical foul called every fifteen games. Since that time, we've conducted six Double-Goal Coach workshops. In the 2004 basketball season, there was a techni- cal foul called every fifty-two games." A baseball league in Northern California found that after Positive Coaching training, there was a dramatic reduction (90 percent!) in the number of people who were ejected from games for bad behavior. Team morale improved so much that the number of players enrolling in the league increased by 20 percent. The only complaint was that they were r unning out of fields. Thompson doesn't want to change just the culture of youth sports. He wants to change the culture of all sports: "I have a fantasy. I'm watching the World Series and a manager comes rushing onto the field to berate an umpire who made a call he disagrees with. On na- tional TV, Bob Costas says, 'That's really too bad to see the manager dishonoring the game of baseball that way.'" (As a side note, notice how wonderfully concrete this vision is.) Youth sports hasn't been purged of discourtesy, but Thompson is making a tangible difference in the places he's reached. And, with Honoring the Game, he has managed to sidestep semantic stretch and peg an idea that makes people care. The lesson for the rest of us is that if we want to make people care, we've got to tap into the things they care about. W hen everybody taps EMOTIONAL 177 into the same thing, an arms race emerges. To avoid it, we've either got to shift onto new turf, as Thompson did, or find associations that are distinctive for our ideas. Appealing to Self-interest We're searching for ways to make people care about our ideas —to make them care about the African child Rokia, about smoking, about charity, about sportsmanship. We make people care b y appealing to the things that matter to them. And what matters to people? So far, we've dealt with associations, but there's a more direct answer. In fact, it might be the most obvious answer of all. What matters to people? People matter to themselves. It will come as no surprise that one reliable way of making people care is by invoking self-interest. In 1925, John Caples was assigned to write a headline for an ad- vertisement promoting the correspondence music cour se offered by the U.S. School of Music. Caples had no advertising experience, but he was a natural. He sat at his typewriter and pecked out the most fa- mous headline in print-advertising history: "They Laughed When I Sat Down at the Piano . .. But When I Started to Pl ay!" This is a classic underdog story in fifteen words. People laughed at him! And he shut them up through his playing! (The headline is en- thralling enough that it makes us overlook commonsense reactions like, Um, why would anyone laugh at someone sitting down at a piano? When was the last time you laughed at someone who sat down at a piano?) The headline was so successful at selling correspondence courses that it's still being ripped off by copywriters decades later. Sixty years later, the following knockoff headline increased sales by 26 percent over the previous year: "My Husband Laughed When I Ordered Our Carpet Through the Mail. But When I Saved 50% . . . " (Our pub- lisher rejected the following subtitle for this book: "They Laughed 178 MADE TO STICK When We Wrote This Book. But When They Woke Up in a n Ice- Filled Bathtub...") Caples helped establish mail-order advertising, the forerunner of the modern infomercial. In mail-order advertising, unlike most other forms of advertising, advertisers know exactly how well an ad works. Say there's an ad for a "stock-picking guide" in a newspaper or a mag- azine. If you want to order the stock-picking guide, you send off a check to the address listed in the ad. But each version of an ad lists a slightly different address, so when your order shows up at a particular address the marketer knows precisely which ad generated the sale. Contrast mail-order ads with a classic consumer pro duct like Crest. Why does someone buy a tube of Crest? Is it because of the new TV ads? Or was it the discount price at retail? Or the fancy new package design? Or the fact that Mom always used Crest? Or that it was the only brand in stock that day? Marketers have surprisingly little ability to tell. Because mail-order advertising is so transparent, it's essentially a laboratory for