Beyond War representative to speak to them. Ainscow recounts a simple demonstration that the group used in its presentations. He always car- ried a metal bucket to the gatherings. At the appropriate point in the presentation, he'd take a BB out of his pocket and drop it into the empty bucket. The BB made a loud clatter as it rico cheted and set- tled. Ainscow would say, "This is the Hiroshima bomb." He then spent a few minutes describing the devastation of t he Hiroshima bomb—the miles of flattened buildings, the tens of thousands killed immediately, the larger number of people with burns or other long- term health problems. Next, he'd drop ten BBs into the bucket. The clatter was louder and more chaotic. "This is the firepower of the missiles on one U.S. or Soviet nuclear submarine," he'd say. Finally, he asked the attendees to close their eyes. He'd say, "This is the world's current arsenal of nuclear weapons." Then he poured 5,000 BBs into the bucket (one for every nuclear warhead in the world). The noise was startling, even terrifying. "The roar of the BBs went on and on," said Ainscow. "Afterward there was always dead silence." This approach is an ingenious way to convey a statistic. Let's un- pack it a bit. First, Beyond War had a core belief: "The public needs to wake up and do something about the arms race." S econd, the group's members determined what was unexpected abou t the mes- sage: Everyone knew that the world's nuclear arsenal had grown since World War II, but no one realized the scale of the growth. Third, they CREDIBLE 143 had a statistic to make their belief credible —i.e. , that the world had 5,000 nuclear warheads when a single one was enough to decimate a city. But the problem was that the number 5,000 mea ns very little to people. The trick was to make this large number meaningful. The final twist was the demonstration—the bucket an d the BBs, which added a sensory dimension to an otherwise abstract concept. Furthermore, the demonstration was carefully chosen—BBs are weapons, and the sound of the BBs hitting the bucket was fittingly threatening. Notice something that may be counterintuitive: The statistic didn't stick. It couldn't possibly stick. No one who saw the demon- stration would remember, a week later, that there were 5,000 nuclear warheads in the world. What did stick was the sudden, visceral awareness of a huge dan- ger—the massive scale-up from World War IIs limited atomic weaponry to the present worldwide arsenal. It was irrelevant whether there were 4,135 nuclear warheads or 9,437. The point was to hit people in the gut with the realization that this was a problem that was out of control. This is the most important thing to remember about using statis- tics effectively. Statistics are rarely meaningful in and of themselves: Statistics will, and should, almost always be used to illustrate a rela- tionship. It's more important for people to remember the relationship than the number. The Human-Scale Principle Another way to bring statistics to life is to contextualize them in terms that are more human, more everyday. As a scientific example, con- trast the following two statements: 1. Scientists recently computed an important physical con- straint to an extraordinary accuracy. To put the accuracy in perspective, imagine throwing a rock from the sun to the 144 MADE TO STICK earth and hitting the target within one third of a mile of dead center. 2. Scientists recently computed an important physical con- straint to an extraordinary accuracy. To put the accuracy in perspective, imagine throwing a rock from New York to Los Angeles and hitting the target within two thirds of an inch of dead center. Which statement seems more accurate? As you may have guessed, the accuracy levels in both questions are exactly the same, but when different groups evaluated the two statements, 58 percent of respondents ranked the statistic about the sun to the earth as "very impressive." That jumped to 83 percent for the statistic about New York to Los Angeles. We have no human ex- perience, no intuition, about the distance between the sun and the earth. The distance from New York to Los Angeles is much more tan- gible. (Though, frankly, it's still far from tangible. The problem is that if you make the distance more tangible —like a football field — then the accuracy becomes intangible. "Throwing a rock the dis- tance of a football field to an accuracy of 3.4 microns" doesn't help.) Stephen Covey, in his book The 8th Habit, describes a poll of 23,000 employees drawn from a number of companies and indus- tries. He reports the poll's findings: * Only 37 percent said they have a clear understanding of what their organization is trying to achieve and why. * Only one in five was enthusiastic about their team's and their organization's goals. * Only one in five said they had a clear "line of sight" between their tasks and their team's and organization's goals. * Only 15 percent felt that their organization fully enables them to execute key goals. * Only 20 percent fully trusted the organization they work for. CREDIBLE 145 Pretty sobering stuff. It's also pretty abstract. You probably walk away from these stats thinking something like "Ther e's a lot of dissat- isfaction and confusion in most companies." Then Covey superimposes a very human metaphor over the sta- tistics. He says, "If, say, a soccer team had these same scores, only 4 of the 11 players on the field would know which goal i s theirs. Only 2 of the 11 would care. Only 2 of the 11 would know what position they play and know exactly what they are supposed to do. And all but 2 players would, in some way, be competing against their own team members rather than the opponent." The soccer analogy generates a human context for the statistics. It creates a sense of drama and a sense of movement. We can't help but imagine the actions of the two players trying to score a goal, being op- posed at every stage by the rest of their team. Why does the analogy work? It relies on our schema of soccer teams and the fact that this schema is somehow cleaner, more well- defined, than our schemas of organizations. It's more vivid to think of a lack of cooperation on a soccer team—where teamwo rk is para- mount—than in a corporation. And this is exactly Co vey's point: Cor- porations should operate like teams, but they don't. Humanizing the statistics gives the argument greater wallop. As another example of the human-scale principle, take a mun- dane situation: figuring out whether a particular technological up- grade is worth the money. One example comes from Ci sco, when it had to decide whether to add a wireless network for its employees. The cost of maintaining a wireless network was esti mated at $500 per year per employee. That price sounds hefty—on the o rder of adding dental or vision insurance for all employees. But it's not a benefit, it's an investment. So how do you