there to buy that many acres. Yet 9 percent of the state was classified as being in "critical dan- ger." Nine percent of California was still far too much to contemplate purchasing, but these regions were environmentally essential; TNC couldn't simply give up on them. TNC decided to implement some new approaches. "Buck s and acres" couldn't succeed with this vast quantity of land. So instead of owning the land outright, TNC would ensure that the critical areas were protected against damage. The organization would pay land- owners not to develop their land, buying what's kno wn as a "conser- vation easement." It would work with local and state governments to change policies and encourage conservation of private and public land. It would focus on important marine areas, where there was no land to buy. These new strategies made sense—TNC could protect m ore areas than it could reach through "bucks and acres." But they also had drawbacks. First, they were much less concrete to donors. Donors can't "walk around on" a favorable government regulation. Second, they were also potentially demoralizing for employees—they made progress less tangible. When TNC was focused on land deals, Sweeney said, "it was easy to celebrate a deal clos ing, to tell everyone, 'John and Mary got this land,' and to pat them on the back." These "milestone moments," so great for morale, were harder to find in the new model. How could TNC make the new strategy more concrete? What would you do in this situation? Is there a way to recapture 102 MADE TO STICK the invaluable tangibility of the "bucks and acres" strategy in a con- text that was necessarily more ambiguous? You've got 40 percent (or at least 9 percent) of the state to protect, and you can't buy it. How do you explain yourself to donors and partners? Chip has discussed this case with his students at Stanford, and in grappling with the need for concreteness some students respond by breaking up the impossibly large scale of the challenge—40 percent of California! 9 percent in critical need!—by subdi viding it into more tangible "subgoals." For example: "We will protect a 2 percent chunk of California every year for twenty years." Others try to invoke a unit of measurement that we can understand, such as the acre. Most peo- ple can visualize an acre. But the scale is too big: 2 percent of Cali- fornia is about two million acres. No one can picture two million acres. The students are wisely trying to find a way to break up a big, ab- stract goal into smaller, more concrete subgoals. T his is the right idea. But in this case the numbers are just too big. And "acreage" is not necessarily the best way to think. There are 1, 500-acre plots of land that are more environmentally precious than other 90,000-acre plots. Thinking about "acreage per year" is akin to a museum curator thinking about "canvases per year," without regard to period, style, or painter. Here's what TNC did: Instead of talking in terms of land area, it talked about a "landscape." A landscape is a contig uous plot of land with unique, environmentally precious features. The TNC set a goal of preserving fifty landscapes—of which twenty-five were an immedi- ate priority—over a ten-year period. Five landscape s per year sounds more realistic than 2 million acres per year, and it's much more con- crete. To the east of Silicon Valley there is a set of bro wn hills that are the beginnings of a wilderness the size of Yosemite. The brown hills are an important watershed for the San Francisco Ba y, but they are CONCRETE 103 quickly being chipped away by Silicon Valley sprawl. Although the area is important ecologically, it is not like the redwoods or the coast, with beautiful visuals that engage people's imaginations. The hills are covered with grass interspersed with a few oak trees. Most of the year, the grass is brown. Sweeney admits that it's not very sexy. Even local groups in the Silicon Valley area that were interested in protecting open spaces weren't paying attention to the brown hills. But, says Sweeney, "We don't go after stuff because it's pretty. We go after it be- cause it's an ecologically important part of creation." TNC named the oak savanna the Mount Hamilton Wilder ness (based on its highest peak, the site of a local observatory). Identifying the area as a coherent landscape and naming it put it on the map for local groups and policymakers. Before, Sweeney says, Silicon Valley groups wanted to protect important areas close to their homes, but they didn't know where to start. "If you say, 'There's a really important area to the east of Silicon Valley,' it's just not exciting, because it's not tangible. But when you say, 'The Mount Hamilton Wilderness,' their interest perks up." The Packard Foundation, a Silicon Valley institution created by one of the founders of the Hewlett-Packard Company, provided a large grant to protect the Mount Hamilton Wilderness. Other envi- ronmental groups in the Bay Area started campaigning to preserve the area. Sweeney says, "We're always laughing now, because we see other people's documents and they're talking about the Mount Ham- ilton Wilderness. We say, 'You know we made that up.'" People who live in cities tend to name and define their neighbor- hoods: "the Castro," "SoHo," "Lincoln Park," and so forth. These names come to define an area and its traits. Neighborhoods have per- sonalities. The Nature Conservancy created the same effect with its landscapes. The Mount Hamilton Wilderness is not a set of acres; it's an eco-celebrity. This is not a story about land; it's a story about abstraction. TNC 104 MADE TO STICK avoided the trap of abstraction —saving 2 million a cres per year—by converting abstract blobs on a map into tangible landscapes. TNC realized, wisely, that the context had grown more a mbiguous, and the solutions had grown more ambiguous, but that their messages could not be allowed to grow more ambiguous. Concreteness is an indis- pensable component of sticky ideas. Understanding Subtraction What makes something "concrete"? If you can examine something with your senses, it's concrete. A V8 engine is concrete. "High- performance" is abstract. Most of the time, concreteness boils down to specific people doing specific things. In the "Unexpected" chap- ter, we talked about Nordstrom's world-class customer service. "World-class customer service" is abstract. A Nordi e ironing a cus- tomer's shirt is concrete. Concrete language helps people, especially novices, understand new concepts. Abstraction is the luxury of the expert. If you've got to teach an idea to a room full of people, and you aren't certain what they know, concreteness is the only safe language. To see this, we can start by studying math classroo ms in Asia. We know, from the news over the years, that East Asian children outper- form American children in, well, just about everything (except the consumption of fatty foods). This is especially evident in math. The math skills of Americans fall behind those of Asians early—the gap is apparent in the first grade, and it widens throughout elementary- school. What are