the con- sequences or outcomes for themselves. There are no calculations, only norms and principles. Which sofa would someone like me — a Southeastern accountant—be more likely to buy? Wh ich political candidate should a Hollywood Buddhist get behind? I t's almost as if people consulted an ideal self-image: What would someone like me do? This second model of decision-making helps shed light on why the firefighters got angry about the popcorn popper . Bear in mind that the popcorn popper wasn't a bribe. If the marketer had said, "Order this film for your firehouse and I'll give you a popcorn popper for your family," clearly most people would reject the offer on ethical grounds. On the contrary, the offer was innocuous: We will give you a popcorn popper to thank you for the trouble you're taking to review the film. You can have the popper regardless of your de cision on the film. There's nothing unethical about accepting this offer. And we can go further than that: From a self-interested, value- EMOTIONAL 191 maximizing point of view, it is simply stupid to turn down this offer. If you make Decision A, you end up with a popcorn popp er. If you make Decision B, you end up with no popcorn popper. Everything else is the same. So unless popcorn destroys value in your world, you'd better make Decision A. But from the perspective of the identity model of decision-making, turning down the popper makes perfect sense. The thought process would be more like this: "I'm a firefighter. You're offering me a pop- corn popper to get me to view a film on safety. But firefighters aren't the kind of people who need little gifts to motivate us to learn about safety. We risk our lives, going into burning buildings to save people. Shame on you for implying that I need a popcorn pop per!" There are ways to unite these two decision models. What if the marketer had offered to donate fifty dollars to a school's fire-safety program in exchange for the firemen's viewing the film? It's less clear that this offer would have violated the firefighters' sense of identity. Self-interest is important. There's no question that we can make people care by appealing to it. But it makes for a limited palette. Al- ways structuring our ideas around self-interest is like always painting with one color. It's stifling for us and uninspiring for others. Floyd Lee, the manager of the Pegasus dining hall, has it right. He could have generated motivation through a strict self-interest appeal: perhaps by offering to let his employees off ten minutes early every night if they worked hard, or by giving them the first choice of the steaks. Instead, he helped create a kind of Pegasus identity: A Pegasus chef is in charge of morale, not food. You can imagine hundreds of de- cisions being made by staffers in the tent who think to themselves, What should a Pegasus person do in this situation? 192 MADE TO STICK The Need for Algebra and Maslow's Basement the situation: Every algebra teacher in recorded history has had to deal with two student questions: "Why do I need to know this? When will I ever use this?" This Clinic examines three attempts to answer these questions. message 1: In a 1993 conference on "Algebra for All," the following points were made in response to the question "Why study algebra?" * Algebra provides methods for moving from the specific to the gen- eral. It involves discovering the patterns among items in a set and developing the language needed to think about and communicate it to others. * Algebra provides procedures for manipulating symbols to allow for understanding of the world around us. * Algebra provides a vehicle for understanding our world through mathematical models. * Algebra is the science of variables. It enables us to deal with large bodies of data by identifying variables (quantities which change in value) and by imposing or finding structures within the data. * Algebra is the basic set of ideas and techniques for describing and reasoning about relations between variable quantities. comments on message 1: This message illustrates the problems posed by the Curse of Knowledge. Presumably, this conference was filled with a group of algebra experts and they came up with an an- swer that seemed plausible to other experts. But let's get real: Will EMOTIONAL 193 any restless student jump on the algebra bandwagon after being told that it "provides procedures for manipulating symbols to allow for understanding of the world"? As a definition of algebra, the bullets above seem quite logical. But as reasons for studying algebra, they don't work. We need a message that makes students care about al- gebra. message 2: We made up the following response. It was inspired by several examples that we saw floating around the Internet: Here's what I tell my students about why they need to learn alge- bra: * You need it to get your high school diploma. * Every future math and science class you take will require a knowl- edge of algebra. * To get admitted to a good college, you'll need a good record in math. * And even if you don't ever plan to attend college, the reasoning skills you learn in algebra will help you buy a home, create a bud- get, etc. My brother is a sales rep for a high-tech firm ... he always had trouble with math in school but now realizes the hard work he put into the course has improved his analytical skills and has made him a better presenter to his clients. comments on message 2: This teacher avoids the Curse of Knowl- edge by speaking practically, but he stays close to Maslow's Base- ment. Why study algebra? The first reason: You have to do it because you have to do it. The second: You have to do it so that you can do more of it. The primary appeal is to Esteem—the desire to be compe- tent, to gain approval and status. The most effective part is the part 194 MADE TO STICK about the author's brother, who later realized that his struggles with math paid off. The brother story is an Esteem appeal that builds in an almost Caples-esque victory story. ("They laughed when I botched the equation, but when I won the account . . ."). message 3: This is a response from a high school algebra teacher, Dean Sherman, to an Internet discussion of this topic among high school teachers: My grade 9 students have difficulty appreciating the usefulness of the Standard Form of the equation of a line, prompting them to ask, "When are we ever going to need this?" This question used to really bother me, and I would look, as a re- sult, for justification for everything I taught. Now I say, "Never. You will never use this." I then go on to remind them that people don't lift weights so that they will be prepared should, one day, [someone] knock them over on the street and lay a barbell across their chests. You lift weights so that you can knock over