he respond when some- one gets up for beers? Perhaps most surprisingly, mental simulation can also build skills. A review of thirty-five studies featuring 3,214 par ticipants showed that mental practice alone —sitting quietly, withou t moving, and pic- turing yourself performing a task successfully from start to finish — improves performance significantly. The results were borne out over a large number of tasks: Mental simulation helped p eople weld better and throw darts better. Trombonists improved their playing, and com- petitive figure skaters improved their skating. Not surprisingly, men- tal practice is more effective when a task involves more mental activity (e.g., trombone playing) as opposed to physical activity (e.g., balancing), but the magnitude of gains from mental practice is large on average: Overall, mental practice alone produced about two thirds of the benefits of actual physical practice. The takeaway is simple: Mental simulation is not as good as actu- ally doing something, but it's the next best thing. And, to circle back to the world of sticky ideas, what we're suggesting is that the right kind of story is, effectively, a simulation. Stories are like flight simula- tors for the brain. Hearing the nurse's heart-monitor story isn't like being there, but it's the next best thing. 214 MADE TO STICK Or think about the Xerox EO53 code story. Why is hearing this story better than a warning about "misleading EO53 indicators" in the training manual? It's better for precisely the reason that flight simula- tors are better for pilots than stacks of instructional flash cards. The more that training simulates the actions we must take in the world, the more effective it will be. A story is powerful because it provides the context missing from abstract prose. It's back to the Velcro theory of memory, the idea that the more hooks we put into our ideas, the better they'll stick. The EO53 story builds in emotions—the frustration of fa iling to find the problem and being misled by the machine's code. It builds in histori- cal background —the idea that the recent change in the "XER board configuration" led to this new error. At the end, it delivers a kind of meta-level moral: You shouldn't have complete faith in the error code. This "code skepticism" is something the repairmen can apply to every future job they undertake. It's easy for a doctor to treat appendicitis once it's been diagnosed, but the problem is learning to distinguish an inflamed appendix from an upset stomach or food poisoning or an ulcer. Or think about be- ginning algebra students, who can solve complex equations but grind to a halt when they're presented with a simple word problem that in- volves exactly the same math. Problem X doesn't always identify itself as Problem X. This is the role that stories play—putting knowledg e into a frame- work that is more lifelike, more true to our day-to-day existence. More like a flight simulator. Being the audience for a story isn't so passive, after all. Inside, we're getting ready to act. STORIES 215 Dealing with Problem Students the situation: Professors have to deal with the occasional nuisance in class—an angry, aggressive, or challenging student. Many profes- sors are caught by surprise and aren't sure how to deal with the situ- ation. In this Clinic we'll compare two different messages that were intended to share strategies for coping with these students. message 1: The first message was produced by Indiana University as a resource for instructors. * Remain calm. Slow down and regularize your breathing. Don't be- come defensive. * Don't ignore them. Attempt to diffuse their anger. Arrange to meet them during a break or after class. During the meeting, acknowl- edge the student's emotions and listen. Talk in a professional and courteous manner. comments on message 1: Notice that there's nothing unexpected here—nothing that is uncommon sense. (And if dealing with difficult students is common sense, then why do we need to publish tips for dealing with them?) Most of the advice—"Remain calm"; "Don't be- come defensive"; "Attempt to diffuse their anger"—is both too ab- stract and too obvious to stick. (Few teachers believe that you should freak out in response to a problem student.) 216 MADE TO STICK message 2: The second message was posted, informally, to a news- group by a professor named Alyson Buckman, who wanted to share her experience with other teachers in the group: I had a student. . . who talked loudly and often in the back of the class, generally when I was speaking. I could hear his comments at the front of the room, and so could everyone else. He also disagreed with me on every point I made, no matter what it was. Students began very quickly to complain about his behavior in their journals and sug- gest methods, generally designed to humiliate, of dealing with him. I tried several things from the beginning, but finally called he and his confidante in class up to the front at the end of class one day and scheduled appointments with me in my office. I made sure I had wit- nesses to these appointments as well—one of the perks of being in a shared office space. The confidante, I believe, had been trapped into that role—the other student just utilized his body as a means to dis- ruption. When I met with the bully, he came in with sunglasses on and a totally defiant behavior. I started with "Why don't you tell me what's going on in the back of the room . . ." and he responded, "I disagree with you." I attempted to talk about this and met with silence. It was not until I told him that other students were complaining and suggesting treatments for the situation that he listened. His body language totally changed as did his manner. I didn't have a problem with him from then on. My basic understanding of this little teaching lesson was that students who display contempt for the teacher might very well be brought into check by other students. After all, he thought he was showing off for them and found that they didn't want to hear or see it. comments on message 2: This story allows us to simulate the process of dealing with a problem student. We follow along with Buckman as STORIES 217 she works her way through the problem. Notice that many of the bul- leted points from the first message are shown, rather than told, in the story. The professor attempts to "diffuse" the student's anger. She arranges "to talk with the student in a more private setting." She stays calm throughout. The solution—in essence, using peer pressure to get the student under control—is both concrete and unexpected. It's uncommon sense. We might have expected a problem student not to care about what his peers thought. We empathize with Buckman, which makes us care about the outcome. It's easier to care about a person than a list of bulleted instructions. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - - Unexpected - X Concrete X X Credible - - Emotional - X Story - X punch LINE: A few stories like Professor Buckman's—flight