Soup for the NASCAR Soul. The Chicken Soup books traffic in inspirational stories—stories that uplift, motivate, energize. In that sense, these stories are the opposite of urban legends, which tend to reinforce a cynical, pes- simistic, or paranoid view of the world. (Strangers will steal your kid- 226 MADE TO STICK neys! Snapple supports the KKK! McDonald's puts wor ms in its burgers!) What's amazing about these stories is that the authors didn't write them—they merely spotted and collected them. We wan ted to un- derstand what made these inspirational stories tick. We pored over in- spirational stories—hundreds of stories, both from Chicken Soup and elsewhere —looking for underlying similarities. Aristotle believed there were four primary dramatic plots: Simple Tragic, Simple Fortunate, Complex Tragic, and Complex Fortunate. Robert McKee, the screenwriting guru, lists twenty-five types of stories in his book: the modern epic, the disillusionment plot, and so on. When we finished sorting through a big pile of inspirational stories—a much narrower domain—we came to the conclusion that ther e are three basic plots: the Challenge plot, the Connection plot, and the Creativity plot. These three basic plots can be used to classify more than 80 per- cent of the stories that appear in the original Chicken Soup collec- tion. Perhaps more surprisingly, they can also be used to classify more than 60 percent of the stories published by People magazine about people who aren't celebrities. If an average person makes it into Peo- ple, it's usually because he or she has an inspiring story for the rest of us. If our goal is to energize and inspire others, these three plots are the right place to start. (By the way, if you're a more jaded type of per- son who finds the Chicken Soup series treacly rather than inspira- tional, you'll still find value in the three plot templates. You can always turn down the volume on the plots a bit.) THE CHALLENGE PLOT The story of David and Goliath is the classic Challenge plot. A pro- tagonist overcomes a formidable challenge and succeeds. David fells a giant with his homemade slingshot. There are variations of the Challenge plot that we all recognize: the underdog story, the rags-to- riches story, the triumph of sheer willpower over adversity. STORIES 227 The key element of a Challenge plot is that the obstacles seem daunting to the protagonist. Jared slimming down to 180 pounds is a Challenge plot. Jared's 210-pound neighbor shaving an inch off his waistline is not. We've all got a huge mental inventory of Challenge plot stories. The American hockey team beating the heavily favored Russians in the 1980 Olympics. The Alamo. Horatio A lger tales. The American Revolution. Seabiscuit. The Star Wars movies. Lance Arm- strong. Rosa Parks. Challenge plots are inspiring even when they're much less dra- matic and historical than these examples. The Rose Blumkin story doesn't involve a famous character. Challenge plots are inspiring in a defined way. They inspire us by appealing to our perseverance and courage. They make us want to work harder, take on new challenges, overcome obstacles. Somehow, after you've heard abo ut Rose Blum- kin postponing her one-hundredth birthday party until an evening when her store was closed, it's easier to clean out your garage. Chal- lenge plots inspire us to act. THE CONNECTION PLOT Today the phrase "good Samaritan" refers to someone who voluntar- ily helps others in times of distress. The original story of the Good Samaritan from the Bible is certainly consistent with this definition, but it's even more profound. The story begins with a lawyer who approached Jesus with a ques- tion about how to get to heaven. The lawyer was more interested in testing Jesus than in learning from him. When Jesus asked the lawyer what he thought the answer was, the lawyer gave a reply tha t included the notion "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." Jesus accepted the lawyer's answer. Then the lawyer (perhaps wanting to limit the number of people he's on the hook to love) says, "And who is my neighbor?" In response, Jesus told a story: 228 MADE TO STICK "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, wh en he fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him and went away, leaving him half dead. "A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. So too, a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. "But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was; and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the man on his own donkey, took him to an inn and took care of him. The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. 'Look after him,' he said, 'and when I return, I will re- imburse you for any extra expense you may have.' "Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers?" The lawyer replied, "The one who had mercy on him." Jesus told him, "Go and do likewise." What's missing from this tale, for modern-day reade rs, is a bit of context. The Samaritan in the story was not simply a nice guy. He was a nice guy crossing a huge social gulf in helping the wounded man. At the time, there was tremendous hostility between Samaritans and Jews (all the other main characters in the story). A modern-day anal- ogy to the outcast status of the Samaritan might be an "atheist biker gang member." The lesson of the story is clear: Good neighbors show mercy and compassion, and not just to people in their own group. This is what a Connection plot is all about. It's a story about peo- ple who develop a relationship that bridges a gap — racial, class, eth- nic, religious, demographic, or otherwise. The Connection plot doesn't have to deal with life-and-death stakes, as does the Good Samaritan. The connection can be as trivial as a bottle of a Coke, as in the famous Mean Joe Greene commercial. A scrawny young white STORIES 229 fan encounters a towering famous black athlete. A bottle of Coke links them. It ain't the Good Samaritan, but it's clearly a Connection plot. Connection plots are also fabulous for romance stories —think of Romeo and Juliet (or the top-grossing movie of all time, Titanic). All Connection plots inspire us in social ways. They make us want to help others, be more tolerant of others, work with others, love others. The Connection plot is the most common kind of plot found in the Chicken Soup series. Where Challenge plots involve overcoming challenges, Connec- tion plots are about our relationships with other people. If you're telling a story at the company Christmas party, it's probably best to use the Connection plot. If you're telling a story at the kickoff party for a new project, go with the