made them easier to remember. In Round 1, you were trying to remember raw data. In Round 2, you were remembering concepts: John F. Kennedy, the FBI, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, UPS, NASA, the IRS. But wait a second. Why is it easier to remember "Jo hn F. Kennedy" than the random letters F, J, K? Surely John F. Kennedy is a bigger bundle of information than the three random letters! Think of all the associations with JFK—politics, relationships, his assassination, and his famous family. If remembering was like weight lifting, it would be ridiculous to think we could "lift" JFK easier than three little letters! The secret, of course, is that we're not "lifting" JFK. All the re- membering work related to JFK has already been done. We've already built those muscles—the concept of JFK, and all its associations, is al- ready embedded in our memories. What we're remembering is sim- ply a pointer to this information—we're posting a l ittle flag on the terrain of our memory. With the raw letters, we're posting three sepa- rate flags. In the end, it's one bit of information (or one flag) versus three, and it's no surprise that one is easier to remember. So what? Is this just neat brain trivia? Here's where we're going: We've seen that compact ideas are stickier, but that compact ideas alone aren't valuable —only ideas with profound compactness are valuable. So, to make a profound idea compact you've got to pack a lot of meaning into a little bit of messaging. And how do you do that? You use flags. You tap the existing memory terrain of your audience. You use what's already there. SIMPLE 53 The Pomelo Schema So far we have presented situations in which one simple idea, or a handful of simple ideas, were useful in guiding behavior. But, let's face it, most people in the world do complicated things. It's not our inten- tion to argue that complicated things—law, medicine , construction, programming, teaching—can be pared down to two or t hree compact messages. We obviously can't replace a school of ar chitecture with a single compact idea ("Keep the building from falling down"). This leads us to an important issue that we haven't discussed yet: How do you turn a freshman into an architect? How does complexity emerge from simplicity? We will argue that it is possible to create complexity through the artful use of simplicity. If simple ideas are staged and layered correctly, they can very quickly become complex. Let us teach you what a "pomelo" is. (If you alread y know what a pomelo is, be a good sport and feign ignorance.) Here is one way that we can explain to you what a pomelo is: Explanation 1: A pomelo is the largest citrus fruit. The rind is very thick but soft and easy to peel away. The resulting fruit has a light yellow to coral pink flesh and can vary from juicy to slightly dry and from seductively spicy-sweet to tangy and tart. Quick question: Based on this explanation, if you mixed pomelo juice half and half with orange juice, would it taste good? You might make a guess, but the answer is probably a bit ambiguous. Let's move on to an alternative explanation: Explanation 2: A pomelo is basically a supersized grapefruit with a very thick and soft rind. Explanation 2 sticks a flag on a concept that you already know: a grapefruit. When we tell you that a pomelo is like a grapefruit, you call 54 MAU t iu 3 i n-i\ up a mental image of a grapefruit. Then we tell you what to change about it: It's "supersized." Your visualized grapefruit grows accordingly. We've made it easier for you to learn a new concept by tying it to a concept that you already know. In this case, the concept is "grapefruit." "Grapefruit" is a schema that you already have. ("Schema" is a bit of technical jargon from psychology, but it's so useful that we think it's worth carrying through the book.) Psychologists define schema as a collection of generic properties of a concept or category. Schemas consist of lots of prerecorded infor- mation stored in our memories. If someone tells you that she saw a great new sports car, a picture immediately springs to mind, filled with generic properties. You know what "sports cars" are like. You pic- ture something small and two-door, with a convertible top perhaps. If the car in your picture moves, it moves fast. Its color is almost cer- tainly red. Similarly, your schema of "grapefruit" also contains a clus- ter of generic properties: yellow-pink color, tart flavor, softball-sized, and so on. By calling up your grapefruit schema, we were able to teach you the concept of pomelo much faster than if we had mechanically listed all the attributes of a pomelo. Note, too, that it's easier to answer the question about the blend of pomelo and orange juice. You know that grapefruit juice blends well with OJ, so the pomelo schema in- herits this property from the grapefruit schema. (By the way, to be complete, Explanation 1 is itself full of schemas. "Citrus fruit" is a schema, "rind" is a schema, and "tangy" is a schema. Explanation 2 is easier to parse only because "grapefruit" is a higher-level schema — a schema composed of other schemas.) By using schemas, Explanation 2 improves both our comprehen- sion and our memory. Let's think about the two defi nitions of "pomelo" in terms of the inverted pyramid structure. What's the lead? Well, with Explanation 1 the lead is: citrus fruit. After the lead, there is no clear hierarchy; depending on what catches people's attention, they might remember the rind info ("very thick but soft and easy to SIMPLE 55 peel away") or the color info ("light yellow to coral pink") or the juici- ness info or the taste info. With Explanation 2, the lead is: grapefruit-like. T he second para- graph is: supersized. The third paragraph is: very thick and soft rind. Six months from now, people will remember—at best! —the lead of our story. That means that with one story they'd remember "fruit" or "citrus fruit." With the other story they'd remember "grapefruit." The second story is clearly better—it isn't a judgm ent call. This concludes what will probably be the last psychological dis- cussion of citrus fruit you'll ever encounter. But though the concept of "pomelo" may not be worth the neurons you just b urned on it, the underlying concept—that schemas enable profound simplicity—is critical. Good teachers intuitively use lots of schemas. Economics teach- ers, for instance, start with compact, stripped-down examples that can be understood by students who have no preexisting economics schemas. "Let's say that you grow apples and I grow oranges. We're the only two people around. Let's also say that we'd prefer to eat some of both fruits rather than all of either. Should we trade? If so, how do we go about doing it?" Students are initially taught how trade works in this simplified context. This knowledge, in turn, becomes a basic trade schema for them. Once learned, this schema can be