so that we can analyze the message later: Sun Exposure: Precautions and Protection (1) A golden, bronze tan is often considered a status symbol. Per- haps this supports the idea that people who have time to lie in the sun long enough to develop a deep tan, or who can travel to warm climates during winter, have more money or leisure time than "com- mon folk." Nevertheless, the goal of many is a deep tan early in spring or to return from vacation with that hearty, healthy glow. Whether a tan suggests status or not, careless exposure to the sun can be harmful. Ultraviolet rays from the sun will damage skin but can also create vision problems, allergic reactions, and depressed immune systems. SIMPLE 39 (2) Tanning and burning are caused by ultraviolet rays from the sun. These rays cannot be seen or felt, but penetrate the skin and stimulate cells containing a brownish pigment called melanin. Melanin protects the skin by absorbing and scattering ultraviolet rays. People with dark skins have high amounts of melanin, have greater natural protection from ultraviolet rays, and tan more easily. Blondes, redheads, and people with fair skins have less melanin and, there- fore, burn more quickly. (3) As melanin is stimulated by ultraviolet rays, it rises to the skin's surface as a tan and provides protection against future sun exposure. Individuals with dark skins such as olive, brown, or black are not im- mune to burning and skin damage caused by careless exposure to the sun. (4) Two types of ultraviolet rays (UV) from the sun' exist: UVA and UVB. UVB cause burning of the skin or the red associated with sun- burn, skin cancer, and premature aging of skin. UVA rays stimulate tanning but are also linked to other problems such as impaired vi- sion, skin rashes, and allergic or other reactions to drugs. (5) Skin damage from overexposure to the sun is cumulative over the years and cannot be reversed. Once damage occurs, it cannot be undone. Most serious and lasting damage occurs before age 18. Protection should start early, particularly with children who enjoy out- door play on sunny days. Before you read our comments below, go back and reread Message 1. What can you do to improve it? comments on message 1: What's the lead here? What's the core? The first paragraph dives into tanned skin as a status symbol, which is simply an interesting red herring. (In fact, the text acknowledges as 40 MADE TO STICK much when it says, "Whether a tan suggests status or not. . .") To us, Paragraph 5 flashes in neon lights as the core: Skin damage . . . is cu- mulative over the years and cannot be reversed. Wow. Isn't that the single most important thing we'd want to tell sun-worshippers? By contrast, Paragraphs 2-4 provide superfluous mechanics. As an analogy, do smokers really need to understand the workings of the lungs in order to appreciate the dangers of smoking? message 2: In the text below, we have reordered the points and tin- kered with the prose a bit in the hope of unburying the lead. Sun Exposure: How to Get Old Prematurely (5) Skin damage from overexposure to the sun is like getting older: It is cumulative over the years and cannot be reversed. Once damage occurs, it cannot be undone. Most serious and lasting damage occurs before age 18. Fortunately, unlike aging, skin damage can be pre- vented. Sun protection should start early, particularly with children who enjoy playing outdoors on sunny days. (2, 3, 4) Tanning and burning are caused by ultraviolet rays from the sun. Ultraviolet rays cause sunburn, which is a temporary sign of deeper underlying skin damage. Sunburns eventually disappear, but the underlying damage persists and may eventually cause premature aging or skin cancer. (1) Ironically, a golden, bronze tan is often considered a sign of good health. But ultraviolet rays not only damage skin, they can also create vision problems, allergic reactions, and depressed immune systems. So instead of a "healthy tan," perhaps we should call it a "sickly tan." SIMPLE 41 comments on message 2: The core of this message is that skin dam- age is cumulative and irreversible. So we've rewritten the message to stress that point and eliminate nonessential information. We've done this to illustrate the process of forced prioritization; we've had to elim- inate some interesting stuff (such as the references to melanin) in order to let the core shine through. We've tried to emphasize the core in a couple of ways. First, we've unburied the lead—putting the core right up front. Second, we've added the analogy to aging to hammer home the idea that damage is irreversible. Third, we've added a concrete and perhaps unexpected image: Sunburns are a signal of damage; they may dis- appear, but the underlying damage does not. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - X Unexpected - X Concrete - X Credible - - Emotional - - Story - - punch LINE: Avoid burying the lead. Don't start with something inter- esting but irrelevant in hopes of entertaining the audience. Instead, work to make the core message itself more interesting. 42 MADE TO STICK Names, Names, and Names Dunn, North Carolina, is a small town about forty miles south of Raleigh. It has 14,000 residents and its workforce is primarily blue collar. The local diner is packed in the morning with people eating big breakfasts and drinking coffee. Waitresses call you "hon." The town recently got a Wal-Mart. All in all, Dunn is a pretty normal place, except for one fact: Al- most everyone there reads the local paper, the Daily Record. As a matter of fact, more than everyone in Dunn reads the paper. The Daily Record's penetration in the Dunn community is 112 percent, which is the highest penetration of any newspaper in the country. For a community penetration to exceed 100 percent, one of two things must be true: (1) People from outside Dunn—perhaps people commuting to jobs in Dunn—are buying the pap er; or (2) some households are buying more than one paper. Maybe it's hard for some couples in Dunn to share. What's the explanation for this remarkable success? The people of Dunn certainly have plenty of options for their news: USA Today, the Raleigh News & Observer, CNN, the Internet, and hundreds of other outlets. So why is the Daily Record so popular? The Dunn Daily Record was founded in 1950 by Hoover Adams. Adams was born with ink in his blood. He got his first byline by sending dispatches from his Boy Scout camp. By the time he was in high school he was serving as a stringer—a freelanc e reporter—for the Raleigh paper. After World War II, Adams became the editor of the Dunn Dispatch. Eventually, he grew restless at the Dispatch and decided to start his own paper, the Daily Record. In 1978, after twenty-eight years of head-to-head competition, the Dispatch finally gave up and sold out to him. SIMPLE 43 Across the fifty-five years of his tenure as publisher, Adams has had a remarkably consistent editorial philosophy. He believes that news- papers should be