It has the same kind of antiauthority truthful- ness that we saw with the Pam Laffin antismoking campaign. The guy who wore 60-inch pants is giving us diet ad vice! * It's emotional: We care more about an individual, Jared, than about a mass. And it taps into profound areas of Mas- low's hierarchy—it's about a guy who reached his po tential with the help of a sub shop. * It's a story: Our protagonist overcomes big odds to triumph. It inspires the rest of us to do the same. By contrast, let's size up "7 Under 6" on the checklist. It's simple, but notice that it has a much less compelling core message. Its core message is "We've got a variety of low-fat sandwiches," versus Jared's "Eat Subway, lose weight, change your life." The first message sells drill bits; the second tells you how to hang your kid's picture. "7 Under 6" is far less unexpected. Jared's story packs a wallop because it violates the powerful schema that fast food is fatty. If "7 Under 6" is attacking the same schema, it makes the point much more tangentially. "7 Under 6" isn't concrete. Numbers aren't concrete. It's credible only because it hasn't set the bar very high — not many of us will be floored to hear that a sandwich has less than 6 grams of fat, so we don't need much convincing. It's not emotional, and it's not a story. Any reader of this book could have analyzed these t wo multi- million-dollar national ad campaigns and chosen the right one, just by laying them side by side on the SUCCESs checklist. (Note, though, that nonreaders might not be so savvy. The national advertis- ing director, who had a lifetime of experience in trying to make ideas stick, wanted to walk away from the Jared story.) Another compelling aspect of the Jared tale is how many people had to work hard to make it a reality. Look at how many unlikely 224 MADE TO STICK events had to take place in order for Jared to hit TV: The Subway store manager had to be proactive enough to bring the magazine ar- ticle to the creative director's attention. (Would your frontline peo- ple do this?) The creative director had to be savvy enough to invest resources in what could have been a fruitless errand. (Was this really an errand with a good return on investment?) The pr esident of the ad agency had to make the spot for free because he knew he was onto something big. (Free!) The national Subway marketin g team had to swallow its pride and realize that it had made a mistake by not em- bracing Jared earlier. These are not trivial actions. This behavior is not routine. How many great ideas have been extinguished because someone in the mid- dle—a link between the source of the idea and its e ventual outlet- dropped the ball? In the normal world, a franchise owner would have been amused by the Jared tale. He would have tacked it up on the bul- letin board, on the wall of the hallway leading to the bathroom, as a source of amusement for his employees. And that would have been the pinnacle of the Jared tale. Jared reminds us that we don't always have to create sticky ideas. Spotting them is often easier and more useful. What if history teachers were diligent about sharing teaching methods that worked brilliantly in reaching students? What if we could count on the volunteers of nonprofit organizations to be on the lookout for symbolic events or en- counters that might inspire other people in the organization? What if we could count on our bosses to take a gamble on important ideas? You don't have to admire Subway sandwiches to admire the process of bringing a great idea to life. The Art of Spotting How do we make sure that we don't let a great idea, a potential Jared, float right under our nose? Spotting isn't hard, but it isn't natural, either. Ideas don't flag themselves to get our attention. We have to STORIES 225 consciously look for the right ones. So what is it, exactly, that we should look for? In the introduction of the book, we discussed a study showing that laypeople who'd been trained to use classic ad templates could create ads that were vastly superior to those developed by an untrained group. Just as there are ad templates that have been proven effective, so, too, there are story templates that have been proven effective. Learning the templates gives our spotting ability a huge boost. Warren Buffett likes to tell the story of Rose Blumkin, a woman who manages one of the businesses that he invested in. Blumkin is a Russian woman who, at age twenty-three, finagled her way past a bor- der guard to come to America. She couldn't speak English and had received no formal schooling. Blumkin started a furniture business in 1937 with $500 that she had saved. Almost fifty years later, her furniture store was doing $100 million in annual revenue. At age one hundred, she was still on the floor seven days a week. She actually postponed her one-hundredth birthday party until an evening when the store was closed. At one point her competitors sued her for violating the fair-trade agreement because her prices were so much lower. They thought she was selling at a loss in order to put them out of business. Buffett says, "She demonstrated to the court that she could profitably sell carpet at a huge discount and sold the judge $1,400 worth of carpet." The story of Rose Blumkin isn't from the book Chicken Soup for the Soul, but it could be. The Chicken Soup series has become a pub- lishing phenomenon, with more than 4.3 million books sold and thirty-seven Chicken Soup titles in print, including Chicken Soup for the Fathers Soul, Chicken Soup for the Nurse's Soul, and Chicken Soup for the NASCAR Soul. The Chicken Soup books traffic in inspirational stories—stories that uplift, motivate, energize. In that sense, these stories are the opposite of urban legends, which tend to reinforce a cynical, pes- simistic, or paranoid view of the world. (Strangers will steal your kid- 226 MADE TO STICK neys! Snapple supports the KKK! McDonald's puts wor ms in its burgers!) What's amazing about these stories is that the authors didn't write them—they merely spotted and collected them. We wan ted to un- derstand what made these inspirational stories tick. We pored over in- spirational stories—hundreds of stories, both from Chicken Soup and elsewhere —looking for underlying similarities. Aristotle believed there were four primary dramatic plots: Simple Tragic, Simple Fortunate, Complex Tragic, and Complex Fortunate. Robert McKee, the screenwriting guru, lists twenty-five types of stories in his book: the modern epic, the disillusionment plot, and so on. When we finished sorting through a big pile of inspirational stories—a much narrower domain—we came to the conclusion that ther e are three basic plots: the Challenge plot, the Connection plot, and the Creativity plot. These three basic plots can be used to classify more than 80 per- cent of the