ical in mind. So he broke their schema by saying, essentially, "If I could, I'd publish pages from the phone book to get names. In fact, if I could gather up enough names I'd hire more typesetters to lay out more pages so they'd fit." Suddenly the reporters r ealized that 72 MADE TO STICK "Names, names, and names" was not consistent with their schemas. Whereas their previous schema might have been "Try to emphasize local angles when you can," Adams had replaced that with "Names come before everything else, even my own profitability." That's a message that draws power from its unexpectedness. Another example we discussed in Chapter 1 was South west Air- lines' proverb "THE low-cost airline." Again, most Southwest staffers and customers know that Southwest is a discount airline. In that con- text, the proverb seems intuitive. It was only when Kelleher put teeth in the proverb —refusing to offer chicken salad to customers even if they really wanted it—that its meaning sank in. Bef ore Kelleher, an average staffer's guessing machine might have predicted, "We want to please our customers in a low-cost way." After Kelleher, the guessing machine was refined to "We will be THE low-cost air line, even if it means intentionally disregarding some of our customers' prefer- ences." So, a good process for making your ideas stickier is: (1) Identify the central message you need to communicate—find th e core; (2) Figure out what is counterintuitive about the message —i.e., What are the unexpected implications of your core message? Why isn't it already happening naturally? (3) Communicate your message in a way that breaks your audience's guessing machines a long the critical, counterintuitive dimension. Then, once their guessing machines have failed, help them refine their machines. Common sense is the enemy of sticky messages. When messages sound like common sense, they float gently in one ear and out the other. And why shouldn't they? If I already intuitively "get" what you're trying to tell me, why should I obsess about remembering it? The danger, of course, is that what sounds like common sense often isn't, as with the Hoover Adams and Southwest examples. It 's your job, as a communicator, to expose the parts of your message that are uncommon sense. UNEXPECTED 73 Tire Chains at Nordstrom Nordstrom is a department store known for outstandi ng customer ser- vice. That extra service comes at a price: Nordstrom can be an expen- sive place to shop. Yet many people are willing to pay higher prices precisely because Nordstrom makes shopping so much more pleasant. For Nordstrom's strategy to work, it must transform its frontline employees into customer-service zealots. And they do not walk in the door that way. Most people with service experience come from envi- ronments where managers spend much of their energy trying to min- imize labor costs. The prevailing schema of customer service might be, roughly, "Get customers in and out the door as fast as possible, and try to smile." Job applicants at Nordstrom will likely have years of experience acting on this schema. But Nordstrom has a different philosophy: Make customers happy even at the expense of efficie ncy. How does Nordstrom break down one schema and replace it with another? The company solves this problem, in part, through unexpected stories. Jim Collins and Jerry Porras, in their boo k Built to Last, de- scribe stories told at Nordstrom about unexpected service by employ- ees, who are known within the firm as "Nordies": The Nordie who ironed a new shirt for a customer who needed it for a meeting that afternoon; the Nordie who cheerfully gift wrapped products a c ustomer bought at Macy's; the Nordie who warmed customers' cars in winter while they finished shopping; the Nordie who made a last-minute delivery of party clothes to a frantic hostess; and even the Nordie who refunded money for a set of tire chains—although Nordstrom doesn't sell tire chains. 74 MADE TO STICK You can imagine the surprise, if not shock, that these stories pro- voke in new Nordstrom employees. "Wrap a gift from Macy's! I don't get it. What's in it for us?" These stories attack the unspoken assump- tions of customer service, such as: Service stops at the door of the store. Don't waste your time on someone who's not buying. Once you close a sale, move on to the next prospect. To new employees, the idea of wrapping a gift bought at a com- petitor's store is so absurd, so far outside the bounds of their existing notion of "service," that the story stops them in their tracks. Their guessing machines have been broken. Their old "good service" guess- ing machine would never have produced the idea of a ltruistic gift- wrapping. The stories provide the first step toward replacing a new employee's schema of "good service" with the Nordstrom service schema. In this way, Nordstrom breaks through the complacency of com- mon sense. Instead of spreading stories about "Nord ies," Nordstrom could simply tell its employees that its mission is to provide "the best customer service in the industry." This statement may be true, but, unfortunately, it sounds like something that JCPenney or Sears might also tell its employees. To make a message stick, you've got to push it beyond common sense to uncommon sense. "Great custo mer ser- vice" is common sense. Warming customers' cars in t he winter is un- common sense. Note that these stories would be even more unexpected—and even less commonsensical —if they were told about a 7-Eleven em- ployee. "Yeah, I went in to get a pack of smokes and the counter clerk ironed my shirt!" The value of the stories does not come from unex- pectedness in and of itself. The value comes from the perfect align- ment between Nordstrom's goals and the content of the stories. These stories could just as easily be destructive in another context. The 7-Eleven management does not want to face an epidemic of gift- wrapping clerks. Nordstrom's stories are a classic example of the po wer of unex- UNEXPECTED 75 pectedness. There's no danger that the stories will feel gimmicky, be- cause the surprise is followed by insight—the stori es tell us what it means to be a good Nordstrom employee. It's uncommo n sense in the sense of a core message. Journalism 101 Nora Ephron is a screenwriter whose scripts for Silkwood, When Harry Met Sally, and Sleepless in Seattle have all been nominated for Academy Awards. Ephron started her career as a jour nalist for the New York Post and Esquire. She became a journalist because of her high school journalism teacher. Ephron still remembers the first day of her journalism class. Al- though the students had no journalism experience, they walked into their first class with a sense of what a journalist does: A journalists gets the facts and reports them. To get the facts, you track down the five Ws—who, what, where, when, and why. As students sat in front of their manual typewriters, Ephron's teacher announced the first assignment. They would write the lead of a newspaper story. The teacher reeled off the facts: "Kenneth L. Pe- ters,