good (e.g., fantastic or amazing) are increasing in use faster than synonyms that are less extreme (okay or pretty good), and that ex- treme synonyms for bad (awful versus bad) show the same pattern. Either se- mantic stretch is happening or the world is becoming simultaneously much better and much worse. 175 Sportsmanship was once a powerful idea: Jim Tho mpson, The Double-Goal Coach: Positive Coaching Tools for Honoring the Gam e and Developing Win- ners in Sports and Life (New York: HarperCollins, 2003). Chapter 4 talks about the problems with sportsmanship and the idea of Honoring the Game. 177 In 1925, John Caples: The classic book on mail-order advertising is John NOTES 271 Caples, Tested Advertising Methods, 5th ed., revised by Fred E. Hahn (Para- mus, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1997). Mail-order ads are frequently schlocky, but, as we say in the text, they're one of the few places where advertisers get im- mediate, measurable feedback about what is and isn't working. That means that there's often a lot of wisdom to be gained in understanding why they look the way they do—someone has tested every attribute. 179 Jerry Weissman, a former TV producer: Jerry We issman, Presenting to Win: The Art of Telling Your Story (New York: Financial Times Prentice Hall, 2003). The quote is on page 18. 180 "Don't say, 'People will enjoy'": Caples/Hahn, Tested Advertising, 133. 180 Cable TV in Tempe: W. Larry Gregory, Robert B. Cialdini, and Kathleen M. Carpenter, "Self-Relevant Scenarios as Mediators of Likelihood Estimates and Compliance: Does Imagining Make It So?" Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 43 (1982): 89-99. 183 In 1954, a psychologist named Abraham Maslow: Abraham Maslow, Moti- vation and Personality (New York: Harper, 1954). 183 Subsequent research suggests that the hierarchical: See any introductory book in psychology. Ever)' textbook author prints a picture of Maslow's hier- archy because it's a great graphic, then confesses that the hierarchical aspect of his theory didn't quite work. 184 Imagine that a company offers: The bonus and n ew job-framing studies are from Chip Heath, "On the Social Psychology of Agenc y Relationships: Lay Theories of Motivation Overemphasize Extrinsic Rewards," Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 78 (1999): 25-62. 186 Dining in Iraq: The Floyd Lee story is from a marvelous article by Julian E. Barnes, "A Culinary Oasis," U.S. News 6 World Report, December 6, 2004, 28. 187 The Popcorn Popper and Political Science: The popcorn popper story is from Caples/Hahn, Tested Advertising, 71. 188 When faced with affirmative action: Donald Kinder, "Opinion and Action in the Realm of Politics," in Handbook of Social Psychology, ed. Daniel T. Gilbert, Susan T. Fiske, and Gardner Lindzey, 4th ed. (London: Oxford Uni- versity Press, 1988), 778-867. The extended quote is from page 801. 190 A related idea comes from James March: James March describes the two patterns of making decisions—consequence versus ide ntity—in Chapters 1 and 2 of James G. March, A Primer on Decision Making (New York: Free Press, 1994). Economic analysis, in particular, assumes that all decisions are made on the basis of consequences, so it makes incorrect predictions in a 272 NOTES number of arenas where identity is important; most economists would be sur- prised that the "Don't Mess with Texas" campaign wo uld work without im- posing fines for littering. 192 In a 1993 conference on "Algebra": Message 1 in the Idea Clinic is from Joseph G. Rosenstein, Janet H. Caldwell, and Warren G. Crown, New Jersey Mathematics Curriculum Framework (New Jersey: New Jersey Department of Education, 1996). 194 MESSAGE 3: Dean Sherman's response and an exte nded discussion of this question among alge"bra teachers can be found at http://mathforum.org/t2t/ thread.taco?thread=1739. 195 Dan Syrek is the nation's leading: Seth Kantor, "Don't Mess With Texas Campaign Scores Direct Hit with Ruffian Litterers," Austin American- Statesman, August 4, 1989, Al. 196 "We call him Bubba": Allyn Stone, "The Anti-Litter Campaign in Texas Worked Just Fine," San Francisco Chronicle, November 28, 1988, A4. 197 Too-Tall Jones steps toward: The Dallas Cowboys spot is described in Rob- ert Reinhold, "Texas Is Taking a Swat at Litterbugs," New York Times, De- cember 14, 1986. 198 The Department of Transportation originally: Marj Charlier, "Like Much in Life, Roadside Refuse Is Seasonally Adjusted," The Wall Street Journal, Au- gust 3, 1989. 6. Stories 204 The nurse was working: The story about the blue -black baby is found in Gary Klein, Sources of Power: How People Make Decisions (Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1998), 178-79. 206 stories make people act: As in previous chapters, this chapter highlights one virtue of stories—encouraging action—but we could h ave discussed others. Stories also help people understand and remember. It's hard to tell an ab- stract story, so stories inherit all the virtues of the Concrete, but they also serve as Simple (core and compact) ways of integrating lots of information. Re- search on jury decision-making shows that jurors re ly heavily on stories to decide on their verdicts. Jurors confront masses of facts, presented in a scram- bled sequence with substantial gaps in the record, filtered through the obvi- ous personal biases of witnesses. How do they deal with this complexity? It turns out they spontaneously construct a story (or stories) to account for this welter of information, then match their personal story with the stories told by the prosecution and the defense and choose whichever side tells a story that NOTES 273 best matches their own. In one study in this area, Nancy Pennington and Reid Hastie showed that verdicts shifted depending on how easily jurors were able to construct a story, even when identical information was presented. When the defense presented evidence in the order of an unfolding story but the prosecution presented evidence out of story ord er, only 31 percent of ju- rors voted to convict the defendant. When exactly the same information was presented but the defense presented witnesses out of order and the prosecu- tion presented witnesses in story order, 78 percent of the jurors voted to con- vict. Jurors felt most confident in their decision when both sides presented in story order; people like to understand both stories, to see the evidence clearly in their mind, and then decide. See Nancy Pennington and Reid Hastie, "Ex- planation-based Decision Making: Effects of Memory Structure on Judg- ment," Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition 14 (1988): 521-33. Stories also improve credibility. Researchers Melanie Green and Timothy Brock point out that attitudes formed by direct experience are more powerful, and stories give us the feeling of real experience. They show that people are more likely to be persuaded by a story when they are "transported" by it— when they feel more wrapped up in their mental simulation. See Melanie C. Green and Timothy C. Brock, "The Role of Transporta tion in the Persua- siveness of Public Narratives," Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 79 (2000): 701-21. 207 The new XER board configuration: Julian E. Orr, Talking About Machines: An Ethnography of a Modern Job (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996). The dicorotron story is on page 137. 209 "John put on his sweatshirt": This study is among dozens of studies that sup- port the importance of