dual power to simulate and to inspire. And most of the time we don't even have to use much creativity to harness these powers—we just need to be ready to sp ot the good ones that life generates every day. WHAT STICKS Sometimes ideas stick despite our best efforts to stop them. In 1946, Leo Durocher was the coach of the Dodgers. His club was leading the National League, while the team's traditional archrival, the New York Giants, was languishing in the bottom of the standings. During a game between the Dodgers and the Giants, Durocher was mocking the Giants in front of a group of sport swriters. One of the sportswriters teased Durocher, "Why don't you be a nice guy for a change?" Durocher pointed at the Giants' dugout and said, "Nice guys! Look over there. Do you know a nicer guy than [Giants' man- ager] Mel Ott? Or any of the other Giants? Why, they're the nicest guys in the world! And where are they? In seventh place!" As recounted by Ralph Keyes in his book on misquotations, Nice Guys Finish Seventh, the metamorphosis of Durocher's quote began a year later. The Baseball Digest quoted Durocher as saying, "Nice guys finish in last place in the second division." Before long, as his quip was passed along from one person to another, it evolved, be- coming simpler and more universal, until it emerged as a cynical comment on life: "Nice guys finish last." No more reference to the EPILOGUE 239 Giants, no more reference to seventh place —in fact , no more refer- ence to baseball at all. Nice guys finish last. This quote, polished by the marketplace of ideas, irked Durocher. For years, he denied saying the phrase (and, of course, he was right), but eventually he gave up. Nice Guys Finish Last was the title of his autobiography. One of the most famous misquotations of all time is attributed to the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes. Holmes never said, "Elementary, my dear Watson." This seems hard to be lieve—the quote is perfectly suited to our schema of Holmes. In fact, if you asked someone to name one Sherlock Holmes quote, this would be it. His most famous quote is the one he never said. Why did this nonexistent quote stick? It's not hard to imagine what must have happened. Holmes frequently said, "M y dear Wat- son," and he often said, "Elementary." A natural mistake, for some- one inclined to quote from a Holmes mystery, would be to combine the two. And, like an adaptive biological mutation, the newly com- bined quote was such an improvement that it couldn't help but spread. This four-word quotation, after all, contains the essence of Holmes: the brilliant detective never too busy to condescend to his faithful sidekick. In the "Simple" chapter, we told the story of the 1992 Clinton cam- paign and Carville's famous proverb, "It's the economy, stupid." We mentioned that this proverb was one of three- phrases that Carville wrote on a whiteboard. Here's a trivia question: What were the other two? The other two phrases were "Change vs. more of the same" and "Don't forget health care." Those phrases didn't stick. So should 240 EPILOGUE Carville have been pleased with the success of "It's the economy, stu- pid" as an idea? On the one hand, his phrase resonated so strongly that it became a powerful tool in framing the election. On the other hand, he got only one third of his message across! We bring up these examples because, in making ideas stick, the audience gets a vote. The audience may change the meaning of your idea, as happened with Durocher. The audience may actually im- prove your idea, as was the case with Sherlock Holmes. Or the audi- ence may retain some of your ideas and jettison others, as with Carville. All of us tend to have a lot of "idea pride." We want our message to endure in the form we designed. Durocher's response, when the au- dience shaped his idea, was to deny, deny, deny . . . then eventually accept. The question we have to ask ourselves in any situation is this: Is the audience's version of my message still core? In Chapter 1 ("Simple"), we discussed the importance of focusing on core messages—honing in on the most important truths that we need to communicate. If the world takes our ideas and changes them—or accepts s ome and dis- cards others—all we need to decide is whether the m utated versions are still core. If they are —as with "It's the econ omy, stupid" —then we should humbly embrace the audience's judgment. Ulti mately, the test of our success as idea creators isn't whether people mimic our exact words, it's whether we achieve our goals. The Power of Spotting Carville, Durocher, and Arthur Conan Doyle were all creators of ideas. They produced ideas from scratch. But let's not forget that it's just as effective to spot sticky ideas as it is to create them. Think about Nordstrom. You can't very well create from scratch a bunch of stories about sales reps cheerfully gift-wrapping presents EPILOGUE 241 from Macy's. But when you come across a real story like that, you've got to be alert to the idea's potential. And this isn't as easy as it sounds. The barrier to idea-spotting is that we tend to process anecdotes differently than abstractions. If a Nordstrom manager is hit with an abstraction, such as "Increase customer satisfaction scores by 10 per- cent this quarter," that abstraction kicks in the managerial mentality: How do we get there from here? But a story about a tire-chain- exchanging, cold-car-warming sales rep provokes a d ifferent way of thinking. It will likely be filed away with other kinds of day-to-day per- sonal news — interesting but ultimately trivial, li ke the fact that John Robison shaved his head or James Schlueter showed up late seven days in a row. In some sense, there's a wall in our minds separating the little picture—stories, for instance—from the b ig picture. Spot- ting requires us to tear down that wall. How do we tear down the wall? As a rough analogy, t hink about the way we buy gifts for loved ones. If we know that Christmas or a birthday is approaching, there's a little nagging process that opens up in our minds, reminding us that "Dad is a gadget guy, so keep an eye out for cool gadgets." It's barely conscious, but if we happen upon a Retractable Roto-Laser-Light on December 8, chances are we'll im- mediately spot it as a possible fit for Dad. The analogy to the idea world is maintaining a deeply ingrained sense of the core message that we want to communicate. Just as we can put on Dad Gift Glasses, allowing us to view merchandise from his perspective, we can also put on Core Idea Glasses, allowing us to filter incoming ideas from that perspective. If you're a Nordstrom manager, obsessed with improving customer service, this filter helps you spot the warming-cars episode as a symbol of perfection, rather than as an interesting anecdote. In the Introduction, we debunked