him to explore the area of knowledge management. Denning s aid, "Now this was a bank which cared about flows of money, not information. The new assignment was the equivalent of being sent to corporate Siberia." The task was not just organizationally unattractive, it was daunt- ing. The World Bank knew a lot about how to achieve results in de- veloping nations, but that information was scattered about the 232 MADE TO STICK organization. The World Bank conducted projects in dozens of coun- tries all over the world—and while there was a cent ral bureaucracy, much of the operational know-how was naturally at the local level. Each project was, in a sense, its own universe. A water-treatment guru in Zambia might have figured out a great way to handle local politi- cal negotiations, but he was unlikely to have the opportunity to share it with a highway-construction guru in Bangladesh. Neither manager would know the other existed, unless they happened to be in the same circle of friends or former colleagues. A month after accepting his assignment, Denning had lunch with a colleague who had just returned from Zambia. This colleague was working on a project to improve health care, particularly for mothers and children. While he was in Zambia he had met a health-care worker in Kamana —a small town 360 miles from Zambi a's capital — who was struggling to fight malaria in the community and was trying to find information on how to combat the disease. The worker had found a way to log on to the Internet and had discovered the answers he needed on the website of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in Atlanta. (Keep in mind that this was in 1996, when the Internet would not have been the obvious first stop for someone in search of information, especially in Africa.) Denning says that he didn't give the story much thought at the time; it was just an interesting anecdote about the resourcefulness of a colleague. Later, it dawned on him that the Zambia story was a per- fect example of the power of knowledge management. Someone in charge of a vital operation needed information. He went looking for it, found it, and, as a result, was able to act more effectively. That's the vision of knowledge management—except that the heal th-care worker shouldn't have been forced to conduct a trial-and-error search, ending at the CDC's website, to get the right information. He should have been able to tap the knowledge of the World Bank. Denning began to incorporate the story into conversations with colleagues, stressing why the World Bank ought to make knowledge STORIES 233 management a serious priority. Weeks later, he had an opportunity to speak to a committee of senior management. He'd have only ten to twelve minutes on the agenda. In that time he'd have to introduce a new organizational strategy and win the group's endorsement. A tall order. First, Denning set up the problem: the difficulties that the World Bank had experienced in pooling its knowledge and the sorry state of its information systems. Then, rather than doing what most people would have done —i.e., rehashing the discipline of knowledge man- agement and quoting some authorities about the importance of knowledge management for the twenty-first century—D enning did something different. He told the Zambia story. Immediately after the presentation, two executives raced up to Denning and began to bombard him with all the things he should be doing to get the program off the ground. Denning thought, "This is a very strange conversation. Up till ten minutes ago, these people weren't willing to give me the time of day, and now I'm not doing enough to implement their idea. This is horrible! They've stolen my idea!" And then he had a happier thought. "How wonderful! They've stolen my idea. It's become their idea!" A few years later, after Denning had left the World Bank, he de- voted himself to spreading the lessons he'd learned about storytelling. In 2001, he wrote a very insightful book called The Springboard. Denning defines a springboard story as a story that lets people see how an existing problem might change. Springboard sto- ries tell people about possibilities. One major advantage of springboard stories is that they combat skepticism and create buy-in. Denning says that the idea of telling stories initially violated his intuition. He had always believed in the value of being direct, and he worried that stories were too ambiguous, too peripheral, too anecdotal. He thought, "Why not spell out the 234 MADE TO STICK message directly? Why go to the trouble and difficulty of trying to elicit the listener's thinking indirectly, when it would be so much sim- pler if I come straight out in an abstract directive? Why not hit the lis- teners between the eyes?" The problem is that when you hit listeners between the eyes they respond by fighting back. The way you deliver a message to them is a cue to how they should react. If you make an argument, you're im- plicitly asking them to evaluate your argument—judg e it, debate it, criticize it—and then argue back, at least in their minds. But with a story, Denning argues, you engage the audience—you are involving people with the idea, asking them to participate with you. Denning talks about engaging the "little voice inside the head," the voice that would normally debate the speaker's points. "The con- ventional view of communication is to ignore the little voice inside the head and hope it stays quiet and that the message will somehow get through," Denning says. But he has a different recommendation: "Don't ignore the little voice. . . . Instead, work in harmony with it. Engage it by giving it something to do. Tell a stor y in a way that elic- its a second story from the little voice." In addition to creating buy-in, springboard stories mobilize people to act. Stories focus people on potential solutions. Telling stories with visible goals and barriers shifts the audience into a problem-solving mode. Clearly, the amount of "problem-solving" we d o varies across stories. We don't watch Titanic and start brainstorming about im- proved iceberg-spotting systems. But we do empathize with the main characters and start cheering them on when they confront their prob- lems: "Look out behind you!" "Tell him off now!" "D on't open that door!" But springboard stories go beyond having us problem-solve for the main character. A springboard story helps us proble m-solve for our- selves. A springboard story is an exercise in mass customization — each audience member uses the story as a springboar d to slightly different destinations. STORIES 235 After Denning told the Zambia story, one of the executives at the meeting took the idea of knowledge management to the president of the World Bank, arguing that it was the future of the organization. Denning was invited to present his ideas to the bank's top leaders, in- cluding the president. By the end of the year, the president had an- nounced that knowledge management was one of the ba nk's top priorities. The Conference Storybook We started the chapter with the nurse story,