stories with visible goals and barriers shifts the audience into a problem-solving mode. Clearly, the amount of "problem-solving" we d o varies across stories. We don't watch Titanic and start brainstorming about im- proved iceberg-spotting systems. But we do empathize with the main characters and start cheering them on when they confront their prob- lems: "Look out behind you!" "Tell him off now!" "D on't open that door!" But springboard stories go beyond having us problem-solve for the main character. A springboard story helps us proble m-solve for our- selves. A springboard story is an exercise in mass customization — each audience member uses the story as a springboar d to slightly different destinations. STORIES 235 After Denning told the Zambia story, one of the executives at the meeting took the idea of knowledge management to the president of the World Bank, arguing that it was the future of the organization. Denning was invited to present his ideas to the bank's top leaders, in- cluding the president. By the end of the year, the president had an- nounced that knowledge management was one of the ba nk's top priorities. The Conference Storybook We started the chapter with the nurse story, which comes from the re- searcher Gary Klein. Klein tells another story that provides a good summary of the ground we've covered. The organizer of a conference once asked Klein's firm to sum up the results of a conference. The organizer wanted a useful summary of the conference — more compact than a transcript and more coher- ent than an idiosyncratic collection of the presenters' PowerPoint slides. Klein's firm assigned one person to monitor each of the confer- ence's five parallel tracks. The monitors attended each panel, and each time someone told a story they jotted it down. At the end of the conference, the monitors compared notes and found that, as Klein said, they had compiled a set of stories that were "funny, and tragic, and exciting." The group structured and organized the stories and sent the packet to the conference organizer. She was ecstatic. She found the packet much more vi vid and use- ful than the typical conference takeaway: a set of dry, jargon-filled ab- stracts. She even requested funds from her organization to convert the notes into a book. Meanwhile, as a courtesy, she sent the sum- mary notes to all of the conference presenters. They were furious. They were insulted to have the stories scooped out of their overall structure—they didn't want to be remembered as people who told a bunch of stories and anecdotes. T hey felt that 236 MADE TO STICK they'd invested countless hours into distilling their experiences into a series of recommendations. Indeed, their abstracts— which had been submitted to the conference organizers—were filled with tidbits of wisdom, such as "Keep the lines of communication op en" and "Don't wait too long when problems are building up. " Klein said, "We want to explain to them how meaningless these slogans are in contrast to stories, such as the one that showed how they had kept the lines of communication open during a difficult in- cident in which a plant was shut down." But the presenters were adamant, and the project was abandoned. This story is one of our favorites in the book, because the dynam- ics are so clear. We're not trying to portray the presenters as bad, idea- hating people. Put yourself in their shoes. You've created this amazing presentation, summarizing years of your wor k, and your goal is to help people master a complex structure that you've spent years constructing. You've erected an amazing intellectual edifice! Then Klein's crew approaches your edifice, plucks a few bricks out of the wall, and tries to pass them off as the sum of all your labors. The nerve! The problem, of course, is that it's impossible to transfer an edifice in a ninety-minute presentation. The best you can do is convey some building blocks. But you can't pluck building blocks from the roof, which is exactly what you're doing with a recommendation like "Keep the lines of communication open." Suppose you're a manager at Nordstrom, addressing a conference of your peers. The final slide in your presentation might read, "Lessons from Nordstrom: In retail, outstanding customer service is a key source of competitive advantage." While discussing your fourth slide you might have mentioned, as a humorous aside, the Nordie who gift-wrapped a present bought at Macy's. These jokers from Klein's firm want to keep your gift-wrapping story but drop your punch line. And they're absolutely right. STORIES ZJ/ In the "Simple" and "Unexpected" chapters, we said that good messages must move from common sense to uncommon se nse. In contrast, there's nothing but common sense in recommendations such as "Keep the lines of communication open" and "Don't wait too long when problems are building up." (Klein comments that these lessons are presumably designed for people who would rather close lines of communication and sit around when they're facing a daunt- ing problem.) Once again, the Curse of Knowledge has bewitched th ese presen- ters. When they share their lessons—"Keep the lines of communica- tion open"—they're hearing a song, filled with pass ion and emotion, inside their heads. They're remembering the experiences that taught them those lessons—the struggles, the political bat tles, the missteps, the pain. They are tapping. But they forget that the audience can't hear the same tune they hear. Stories can almost single-handedly defeat the Curse of Knowl- edge. In fact, they naturally embody most of the SUCCESs frame- work. Stories are almost always Concrete. Most of them have Emotional and Unexpected elements. The hardest part of using sto- ries effectively is making sure that they're Simple—that they reflect your core message. It's not enough to tell a great story; the story has to reflect your agenda. You don't want a general lining up his troops be- fore battle to tell a Connection plot story. Stories have the amazing dual power to simulate and to inspire. And most of the time we don't even have to use much creativity to harness these powers—we just need to be ready to sp ot the good ones that life generates every day. WHAT STICKS Sometimes ideas stick despite our best efforts to stop them. In 1946, Leo Durocher was the coach of the Dodgers. His club was leading the National League, while the team's traditional archrival, the New York Giants, was languishing in the bottom of the standings. During a game between the Dodgers and the Giants, Durocher was mocking the Giants in front of a group of sport swriters. One of the sportswriters teased Durocher, "Why don't you be a nice guy for a change?" Durocher pointed at the Giants' dugout and said, "Nice guys! Look over there. Do you know a nicer guy than [Giants' man- ager] Mel Ott? Or any of the other Giants? Why, they're the nicest guys in the world! And where are they? In seventh place!" As recounted by Ralph Keyes in his book on misquotations, Nice Guys Finish Seventh, the metamorphosis of Durocher's quote began a year later. The Baseball Digest quoted Durocher as saying,