for the teacher might very well be brought into check by other students. After all, he thought he was showing off for them and found that they didn't want to hear or see it. comments on message 2: This story allows us to simulate the process of dealing with a problem student. We follow along with Buckman as STORIES 217 she works her way through the problem. Notice that many of the bul- leted points from the first message are shown, rather than told, in the story. The professor attempts to "diffuse" the student's anger. She arranges "to talk with the student in a more private setting." She stays calm throughout. The solution—in essence, using peer pressure to get the student under control—is both concrete and unexpected. It's uncommon sense. We might have expected a problem student not to care about what his peers thought. We empathize with Buckman, which makes us care about the outcome. It's easier to care about a person than a list of bulleted instructions. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - - Unexpected - X Concrete X X Credible - - Emotional - X Story - X punch LINE: A few stories like Professor Buckman's—flight simulators for reining in problem students—would be much more interesting and effective in training professors than the list of bullet points in Message 1. This solution is not intuitive; nine out of ten training de- partments would create Message 1. We must fight the temptation to skip directly to the "tips" and leave out the story. 218 MADE TO STICK Stories as Inspiration: The Tale of Jared In the late 1990s, the fast-food giant Subway launched a campaign to tout the healthiness of a new line of sandwiches. The campaign was based on a statistic: Seven subs under six grams of fat. As far as statis- tics go, that's pretty good —a spoonful of allitera tion helps the medi- cine go down. But "7 Under 6" didn't stick like Subway's next campaign, which focused on the remarkable story of a college stu- dent named Jared Fogle. Jared had a serious weight problem. By his junior year in college, he had ballooned to 425 pounds. He wore size XXXXXX L shirts, the largest size available in big-and-tall clothing stores. His pants had a 60-inch waist. Jared's father, a general practitioner in Indianapolis, had been warning his son about his weight for years without much success. Then, one day in December, Jared's roommate, a premed major, no- ticed that Jared's ankles were swollen. He correctl y diagnosed edema, a condition in which the body retains fluid because the blood can't transport enough liquid; it often leads to diabetes, heart problems, and even early heart attacks. Jared's father told him that, given his weight and general health, he might not live past thirty-five. By the spring break following his December hospital visit, Jared had decided to slim down. Motivated by the "7 Under 6" campaign, he had his first turkey club. He liked the sandwich, and eventually he developed his own, all-Subway diet: a foot-long veggie sub for lunch and a six-inch turkey sub for dinner. After three months of the "Subway diet," as he called it, he stepped on the scale. It read 330 pounds. He had dr opped almost 100 pounds in three months by eating at Subway. He stuck with the diet for several more months, sometimes losing as much a s a pound a day. As soon as his health permitted, he began walking as much as he could—not taking the bus to classes and even walkin g up stairs rather than taking the department-store escalator. STORIES 219 The story of how Jared's inspiring weight-loss beca me a national phenomenon begins with an article that appeared in the Indiana Daily Student in April 1999. It was written by Ryan Coleman, a for- mer dormmate of Jared's. Coleman saw Jared after he had lost weight and almost didn't recognize him. He wrote movingly about what it was like for Jared to be obese: When Fogle registered for a class, he didn't base his choice on professor or class time like most students. He based which classes to register on whether he could fit into the classroom seats. When most folks worried whether they could find a parking spot close to campus, Fogle worried whether he could find a park- ing spot without a car already parked nearby—he nee ded the extra room in order to open the driver's side door so he could get out. The article ended with this quote from Jared: "Subway helped save my life and start over. I can't ever repay that." T his may have been the first time that a fast-food chain was credited with transforming some- one's life in a profoundly positive way. Then a reporter at Men's Health magazine, who was writing an ar- ticle called "Crazy Diets That Work," happened to see the Indiana Daily article about Jared, and he included a blurb about a "subway sandwich diet." The article didn't mention Jared's name or even where he had bought the sandwiches; it simply referred generically to "subway sandwiches." The key link in the chain was a Subway franchise owner named Bob Ocwieja, who spotted the article and thought it had potential. He took time out of his schedule to track down the creative director at Subway's Chicago ad agency, a man named Richard Coa d, and sug- gested that he check out the article. Coad says, "I kind of laughed at first, but we followed up on it." Jared is the hero of the weight-loss story, but Ocwieja and Coad are the heroes of our idea story. Ocwieja is a hero for spotting poten- 220 MADE TO STICK tial in a story, and Coad is a hero for spending the resources to follow up on it. Coad and Barry Krause, the president of the advertising agency called Hal Riney, sent an intern to Bloomington, Indiana, with vague instructions to find the mystery sandwich-diet guy— and also to find out whose sandwiches he had been eating. It could easily have turned out that Jared had been dining at Flo's Sub Shop. The intern wasn't exactly sure what he was supposed to do. His tentative plan was to show up in Bloomington, look through the Yel- low Pages, and start dropping by the town's sub shops. Fortunately for the intern, the operation never became that complex. The first sub shop the intern visited was a Subway franchise close to campus. He launched into his description of the mystery eater, and about one sen- tence into the description the counter worker said, "Oh, that's Jared. He comes here every day." The intern returned victorious. Jared was real, and he'd shed pounds by eating at Subway. The agency thought, We've got a great story on our hands. And that's when the Jared story hit another hurdle. Ad agency president Krause called Subway's marketing director to unveil the tale of Jared, but the marketing director wasn't impressed. He had just started his job at Subway, having previously worked for another fast-food company. "I've seen that before," he said. "Fast foods can't do healthy." The marketing