change. When a screenwriter is hired, the story will change. When a director is hired, the artistic feel of the movie will change. When stars are hired to play the parts, their personalities will change how we perceive the charac- ters in the story. When producers are hired, the storytelling will be- come subject to financial and logistical constraints. And when the movie is completed, months or years later, the marketing team will need to find a way to explain the plot to the public in about thirty sec- onds—without giving away too much. Imagine investing millions in an idea that will change as it is fil- tered through the consciousness of a succession of individuals with giant egos: directors, stars, producers, marketers. That idea had better be good. In Hollywood, people use core ideas called "high-concept pitches." You've probably heard some of them. Speed was "Die Hard on a bus." 13 Going on 30 was "Big for girls." Alien was "Jaws on a spaceship." The high-concept pitches don't always reference other movies. E.T., for instance, was pitched as "Lost alien befriends lonely boy to get home." But a lot of pitches do invoke past movies. Why is that? Is it because Hollywood is full of cynical execs who shamelessly recycle old ideas? Well, yes, but that's only part of the reason. The concept of the movie Speed, before it was pitched, obviously did not exist in the minds of the execs. It was like the word "pomelo," before you knew what it meant. The compact, five-word phrase "Die Hard on a bus" pours a breathtaking amount of meaning into the pre viously nonex- SIMPLE 59 istent concept of Speed. To see this, think of all the important deci- sions you could make, just on the strength of those five words. Do you hire an action director or an indie director? Action. Do you budget $10 million for the movie or $100 million? $100 million. Big star or ensemble cast? Big star. Target a summer release or a Christmas re- lease? Summer. As another example, imagine that you were just hired to be the production designer on the new film Alien. It will be your job to de- sign the spaceship where most of the movie takes place. What does it look like? If you knew nothing at all about the movie, you might sen- sibly start by looking at old spaceship designs. For instance, think of the cool, immaculate interior of the Enterprise on Star Trek. Then your boss tells you that the vision for the movie is "Jaws on a spaceship." That changes everything. Jaws was not cool or immac- ulate. Richard Dreyfus navigated around on a ricket y old boat. De- cisions were rushed, slapdash, claustrophobic, anxiety-ridden. The environment was sweaty. As you think about what mad e Jaws tick, your ideas start to take shape: The ship will be underdeveloped, dingy, and oppressive. The crew members will not wear bright Lycra uniforms. The rooms will not be well lit and lintless. High-concept pitches are Hollywood's version of cor e proverbs. Like most proverbs, they tap the power of analogy. By invoking schemas that already exist (e.g., what the movie Jaws is like), the prov- erbs radically accelerate the learning process for people working on a brand-new movie. Obviously, a good pitch is not synonymous with a go od movie. "Jaws on a spaceship" could have turned into a terrible movie if it weren't for the contributions of hundreds of talented people over a period of years. On the other hand, a bad pitch —a bad proverb —is plenty to ruin a movie. No director could save "Terms of Endearment on a spaceship." If high-concept pitches can have this power in the movie world— 60 MADE TO STICK an environment filled with forty times the normal density of egos— we should feel confident that we can harness the same power in our own environments. Generative Analogies Some analogies are so useful that they don't merely shed light on a concept, they actually become platforms for novel thinking. For ex- ample, the metaphor of the brain as a computer has been central to the insights generated by cognitive psychologists during the past fifty years. It's easier to define how a computer works than to define how the brain works. For this reason it can be fruitful for psychologists to use various, well-understood aspects of a computer— such as mem- ory, buffers, or processors —as inspiration to loca te similar functions in the brain. Good metaphors are "generative." The psychologist Donald Schon introduced this term to describe metaphors that generate "new per- ceptions, explanations, and inventions." Many simple sticky ideas are actually generative metaphors in disguise. For example, Disney calls its employees "cast members." This metaphor of employees as cast members in a theatrical production is communicated consistently throughout the organization: * Cast members don't interview for a job, they audition for a role. * When they are walking around the park, they are onstage. * People visiting Disney are guests, not customers. * Jobs are performances; uniforms are costumes. The theater metaphor is immensely useful for Disney employees. It is so useful that just by reading the last few paragraphs you can probably predict how cast members should behave in situations we haven't discussed. For instance, you can probably guess that employ- SIMPLE 61 ees are not allowed to be on break while in costume and in a public area. (An actor would never have a chat and a cigarette in mid-scene.) You might guess that street sweepers are evaluated on criteria other than the cleanliness of their sidewalks. Indeed, street sweepers are some of the most highly trained cast members, since their very visible public presence — coupled with the fact that they a re clearly Disney employees —makes them an obvious target for custome rs' questions about rides, parades, and restroom locations. Having them think of their role as performance, rather than maintenance, is a key part of the park's success. "Employees as cast members" is a generative metaphor that has worked for Disney for more than fifty years. Contrast Disney with Subway. Like Disney, Subway ha s created a metaphor for its frontline employees. They are "sandwich artists." This metaphor is the evil twin of Disney's "cast members." It is utterly useless as a guide to how the employee should act. Disney expects its cast members to behave like actors, but Subway does not expect its counter help to behave like artists. The defining trait of an "artist" is individual expression. We wonder how long an employee would last at Subway if she exhibited a lot of individual expression —in dress, in interaction, in the presentation of sandwiches. No doubt Subway's sandwich artists are trusted to place a handful of onions on a twelve- inch sub, and it's true that this is a certain kind of liberty. But one sus- pects that the counter person's "artistry" can't extend to adding an extra slice of turkey. The Power of Simplicity Generative metaphors and proverbs both derive their power from a clever substitution: They substitute something easy to think about for something difficult. The proverb "A bird