that the refrigerator test is "easier." Why does this happen? Because concreteness is a way of mobiliz- ing and focusing your brain. For another example of this phenome- non, consider these two statements: (1) Think of five silly things that people have done in the world in the past ten years. (2) Think about five silly things your child has done in the past ten years. Sure, this is a neat brain trick. But what value does it have? Con- sider a situation where an entrepreneur used this neat brain trick to earn a $4.5 million investment from a savvy and sophisticated group of investors. Kaplan and Go Computers For an entrepreneur, having the chance to pitch a business idea to local venture capitalists is a big deal, like a budding actor getting an audition with an independent film director. But having a chance to pitch an idea to Kleiner Perkins —the most prestigi ous firm in Silicon Valley—is more like a private one-on-one audition w ith Steven Spiel- berg. You could walk out a star, or you could walk out having blown the biggest chance of your life. And that's why twenty-nine-year-old Jerry Kaplan was nervous as he stood in the Kleiner Perkins office in early 1987. His presentation would start in about thirty minutes. Kaplan was a former researcher at Stanford who had quit to work at Lotus in its early days. Lotus, with its bestselling Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet, became a stock market darling. CONCRETE 121 Now Kaplan was ready for the next challenge. He had a vision for a smaller, more portable generation of personal computers. He hung around outside the conference room as the previous entrepreneur finished his presentation. Watching the other entrepre- neur, he felt underprepared. As he observed, his nervousness advanced toward panic. The other entrepreneur wore a dark pin-striped suit with a red power tie. Kaplan had on a sport jacket with an open-collared shirt. The other entrepreneur was projecting an impressive color graph onto the whiteboard. Kaplan was carrying a maroon p ortfolio with a blank pad of paper inside. This did not bode well. Kaplan had thought that he was showing up for an in formal "get to know you" session, but, standing there, he realized how naive he'd been. He had "no business plan, no slides, no charts, no financial projections, no prototypes." Worst of all, the überprepared entrepre- neur in the boardroom was facing a skeptical audience that now pep- pered him with tough questions. When Kaplan's turn arrived, one of the partners introduced him. Kaplan took a deep breath and started: "I believe that a new type of computer, more like a notebook than a typewriter, and operated by a pen rather than a keyboard, will serve the needs of professionals like ourselves when we are away from our desks. We will use them to take notes, send and receive messages through cellular telephone links; look up addresses, phone numbers, price lists, and inventories; do spreadsheet calculations; and fill out order forms." He covered the required technology, highlighting the major un- known: whether a machine could reliably recognize handwriting and convert it into commands. Kaplan recounts what happened next: My audience seemed tense. I couldn't tell whether they were an- noyed by my lack of preparation or merely concentrating on what I was saying. . . . Thinking I had already blown it, and therefore had little to lose, I decided to risk some theatrics. "If I were carrying a portable PC right now, you wo uld sure as 122 MADE TO STICK hell know it. You probably didn't realize that I am holding a model of the future of computing right here in my hands." I tossed my maroon leather case in the air. It sailed to the cen- ter of the table where it landed with a loud clap. "Gentlemen, here is a model of the next step in the computer revolution." For a moment, I thought this final act of drama might get me thrown out of the room. They were sitting in stunned silence, star- ing at my.plain leather folder—which lay motionless on the table—as though it were suddenly going to come to l ife. Brook Byers, the youthful-looking but long-time partner in the firm, slowly reached out and touched the portfolio as if it were some sort of talisman. He asked the first question. "Just how much information could you store in something like this?" John Doerr [another partner] answered before I coul d re- spond. "It doesn't matter. Memory chips are getting smaller and cheaper each year and the capacity will probably double for the same size and price annually." Someone else chimed in. "But bear in mind, John, that unless you translate the handwriting efficiently, it's likely to take up a lot more room." The speaker was Vinod Khosla, the founding CEO of Sun Microsystems, who helped the partnership evaluate tech- nology deals. Kaplan said that from that point on he hardly had to speak, as part- ners and associates traded questions and insights that fleshed out his proposal. Periodically, he said, someone would reach out to touch or examine his portfolio. "It had been magically transformed from a sta- tionery-store accessory into a symbol of the future of technology." A few days later, Kaplan got a call from Kleiner Perkins. The part- ners had decided to back the idea. Their investment valued Kaplan's nonexistent company at $4.5 million. CONCRETE 123 What transformed this meeting from a grill session —with an anx- ious entrepreneur in the hot seat—to a brainstormin g session? The maroon portfolio. The portfolio presented a challenge to the board- room participants —a way of focusing their thoughts and bringing their existing knowledge to bear. It changed their attitude from reac- tive and critical to active and creative. The presence of the portfolio made it easier for the venture capi- talists to brainstorm, in the same way that focusing on "white things in our refrigerator" made it easier for us to brainstorm. When they saw the size of the portfolio, it sparked certain questions: How much memory could you fit in that thing? Which PC components will shrink in the next few years, and which won't? What new technology would have to be invented to make it feasible? This same process was sparked in Sony's Japanese engineering team by the concept of a "pocketable radio." Concreteness creates a shared "turf on which people can collab- orate. Everybody in the room feels comfortable that they're tackling the same challenge. Even experts —even the Kleiner Perkins venture capitalists, the rock stars of the technology world —benefit from con- crete talk that puts them on common ground. Oral Rehydration Therapy Saves Children's Lives! the situation: Each year more than a million children in countries around the world die from dehydration caused by diarrhea. This problem can be prevented, at very low cost, by getting kids the right kind of fluids. How do you get people invested in this idea? 124 MADE TO STICK message 1: Here's an explanation from PSI, a nonprofit group that addresses health problems in developing countries: Diarrhea is one of the leading killers of young children in