and how we can respond to them. Problems getting people to pay attention to a message symptom: "No one is listening to me" or "They seem bored—they hear this stuff all the time." solution-. Surprise them by breaking their guessing machines—tell them something that is uncommon sense. (The lead is , There will be no school next Thursday! Nordies gift-wrap packages from Macy's!) symptom: "I lost them halfway through" or "Their at tention was wa- vering toward the end." 248 EPILOGUE solution: Create curiosity gaps—tell people just en ough for them to realize the piece that's missing from their knowledge. (Remember Roone Arledge's introductions to college football games, setting the context for the rivalry.) Or create mysteries or puzzles that are slowly solved over the course of the communication. (Like the professor who started each class with a mystery, such as the one about Saturn's rings.) Problems getting people to understand and remember symptom: "They always nod their heads when I explai n it to them, but it never seems to translate into action." solution: Make the message simpler and use concrete language. Use what people already know as a way to make your intentions clearer, as with a generative analogy (like Disney's "cast member" metaphor). Or use concrete, real-world examples. Don't talk about "knowledge management"; tell a story about a health worker in Zambia getting information on malaria from the Internet. symptom: "We have these meetings where it seems like everyone is talking past each other" or "Everyone has such different levels of knowledge that it's hard to teach them." solution: Create a highly concrete turf where peopl e can apply their knowledge. (Think of the venture-capital pitch for a portable com- puter where the entrepreneur tossed his binder onto the table, spark- ing brainstorming.) Have people grapple with specific examples or cases rather than concepts. Problems getting people to believe you or agree symptom: "They're not buying it." solution: Find the telling details for your message—the equivalent of the dancing seventy-three-year-old man, or the textile factory so EPILOGUE 249 environmentally friendly that it actually cleans the water pouring through it. Use fewer authorities and more antiauthorities. symptom: "They quibble with everything I say" or "I spend all my time arguing with them about this." solution: Quiet the audience's mental skeptics by using a spring- board story, switching them into creative mode. Move away from sta- tistics and facts toward meaningful examples. Use an anecdote that passes the Sinatra Test. Problems getting people to care symptom-. "They are so apathetic" or "No one seems fired up about this." solution: Remember the Mother Teresa effect—people care more about individuals than they do about abstractions. Tell them an in- spiring Challenge plot or Creativity plot story. Tap into their sense of their own identities, like the "Don't Mess with Texas" ads, which sug- gested that not littering was the Texan thing to do. symptom: "The things that used to get people excited just aren't doing it anymore." solution: Get out of Maslow's basement and try appealing to more profound types of self-interest. Problems getting people to act symptom: "Everyone nods their heads and then nothin g.happens." solution: Inspire them with a Challenge plot story (Jared, David and Goliath) or engage them by using a springboard stor y (the World Bank). Make sure your message is simple and concret e enough to be useful—turn it into a proverb ("Names, names, and n ames"). 250 EPILOGUE John F. Kennedy versus Floyd Lee "I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and return- ing him safely to the earth." Those were John F. Kennedy's words in May 1961. An inspiring message for an inspiring mission. It was a sin- gle idea that motivated a nation to a decade of work—and an even- tual, historic, unforgettable success. But here's the thing: You're not JFK. And neither are we. We don't have an ounce of his charisma or power. We are less concerned with traveling to the moon than with, say, remembering our wallets when we leave home in the morning. So, if being JFK was what it took to make an idea stick, this would be a depressing book indeed. JFK isn't the standard. In fact, he's the aberration. Keep in mind that the same chapter where we first mentioned the "Man on the Moon" speech also contains a reference to the Kentucky Fried Rat. Our heads are not entirely in the clouds. Sticky ideas have things in common, and in this boo k we've reverse-engineered them. We've studied preposterous ideas: the kid- ney thieves and their ice-filled bathtub. We've studied brilliant ideas: Ulcers are caused by bacteria. We've studied boring ideas made inter- esting: the flight-safety announcement. We've studied interesting ideas made boring: Oral rehydration salts that could save the lives of thousands of kids. We've seen ideas related to newspapers, account- ing, nuclear war, evangelism, seat belts, dust, dancing, litter, football, AIDS, shipping, and hamburgers. And what we've seen is that all these ideas—profoun d and mun- dane, serious and silly—share common traits. Our ho pe is that, now that you understand these traits, you'll be able to apply them to your own ideas. They laughed when you shared a story instead of a s tatistic. But when the idea stuck . . . EPILOGUE 251 The SUCCESs checklist is intended to be a deeply practical tool. It's no accident that it's a checklist and not an equation. It's not hard, and it's not rocket science. But neither is it natural or instinctive. It re- quires diligence and it requires awareness. This book is filled with normal people facing normal problems who did amazing things simply by applying these principles (even if they weren't aware that they were doing it). These people are so nor- mal that you probably won't even recognize their names when you see them. Their names aren't sticky, but their stories are. There was Art Silverman. He was the guy who stopped a nation from eating obscenely unhealthy movie popcorn. He l aid out a full day's worth of fatty foods next to a tub of popcorn and said, "This is how much saturated fat is in this snack." A normal person with a nor- mal job who made a difference. There was Nora Ephron's journalism teacher. Poor gu y, we didn't even mention his name. He told his class, "The lead is 'There will be no school next Thursday.'" And in that one sentence he rewrote his students' image of journalism. He inspired Ephron—a nd doubtless many others —to become journalists. A normal person with a normal job who made a difference. What about Bob Ocwieja? No chance you remember his name. He's the Subway franchise owner who served sandwich es to a fat guy every day and spotted a great story in the making. Because of Ocwieja the hugely successful Jared campaign was discovered and launched. A normal person with a normal job who made a difference. Then there was Floyd Lee, the leader of the Pegasus mess hall in Iraq. He defined his role as being about morale, not food