the great raw materials that are already there while down- playing the numbers in the billions. Second, let's choose a concrete comparison that has a better emotional resonance. Some people might think B-2 bombers are a reasonable expense. Let's try to create a comparison that would be more unexpected because it's clearly frivolous. message 2: Our foreign-aid programs do not support our belief that we are a nation known for its good works around the world. The pub- lic believes we spend a great deal more money helping other coun- tries than we actually do. Polls suggest that most Americans think the federal government spends about 10 to 15 percent of its budget on foreign aid. The truth is that we spend less than 1 percent, the lowest of any industrialized nation. All of sub-Saharan Africa receives just over $1 billion in economic aid. If everyone in the United States gave up one soft drink a month, we could double our current aid to Africa. If everyone gave up one movie a year, we could double our current aid to Africa and Asia. UNEXPECTED 79 comments on message 2: Here's what we tried to do to make this message stickier: First, we built interest by quickly and directly break- ing our schema of a "generous America." We also shifted the conver- sation to percentages, which are easier to understand than billions. Second, we tried to make the B-2 analogy more concrete by re- placing it with soft drinks and movies. Soft drinks and movies are more tangible—does anyone really have a "gut feel" for what a B-2 bomber costs, or what it's worth? Soft drinks and movies, because they are frivolous expenses, also provide an emotional contrast to the critical human needs present in Africa. Checklist Message 1 Message 2 Simple - X Unexpected X XX (B-2 Comparison) (intro & comparison) Concrete X X Credible X X Emotional - X Story - - punch line: The best way to get people's attention is to break their existing schemas directly. 80 KEEPING PEOPLE'S ATTENTION The Mystery of the Rings We began this chapter with two questions: How do we get people's at- tention? And how do wo keep it? So far, most of our unexpected ideas, represent relatively simple, quick adjustments to a model. They may he profound —as with Nora Ephron's journalism teach er —but they happen rapidly, so they only need to get people's attention for a short time. Sometimes, though, our messages are more comp lex. How do we get people to stick with us through a more complex message? How do we keep people's attention? A few years ago, Robert Cialdini, a social psychologist at Arizona State University, set out to improve the way he talked about science in his writing and in his classes. For inspiration, he went to the li- brary. He pulled down every book he could find in which scientists were writing for an audience of nonscientists. He photocopied sec- tions of prose that he liked. Later, flipping through his stack of copied passages, he hunted for consistencies. In passages that weren't interesting, he found mostly what he ex- pected. The purpose wasn't clear, and the prose was too formal and rid- dled with jargon. He also found a lot of predictabl e virtues in the good passages: The structure was clear, the examples vivid, and the language fluid. "But," says Cialdini, "I also found something I had not expected — the most successful of these pieces all began with a mystery story. The authors described a state of affairs that seemed to make no sense and then invited the reader into the material as a way of solving the mystery." One example that stuck in his mind was written by an astronomer, who began with a puzzle: How can we account for what is perhaps the most spectacular plan- etary feature in our solar system, the rings of Saturn? There's noth- ing else like them. What are the rings of Saturn made of anyway? UNEXPECTED 81 And then he deepened the mystery further by asking, "How could three internationally acclaimed groups of scientists come to wholly different conclusions on the answer?" One, a t Cambridge University, proclaimed they were gas; another group, at MIT, was convinced they were made up of dust particles; while the third, at Cal Tech, insisted they were comprised of ice crystals. How could this be, after all, each group was looking at the same thing, right? So, what was the answer? The answer unfolded like the plot of a mystery. The teams of sci- entists pursued promising leads, they hit dead ends, they chased clues. Eventually, after many months of effort, there was a break- through. Cialdini says, "Do you know what the answer was at the end of twenty pages? Dust. Dust. Actually, ice-covered dust, which ac- counts for some of the confusion. Now, I don't care about dust, and the makeup of the rings of Saturn is entirely irrelevant to my life. But that writer had me turning pages like a speed-reader." Mysteries are powerful, Cialdini says, because they create a need for closure. "You've heard of the famous Aha! experience, right?" he says. "Well, the Aha! experience is much more satisfying when it is preceded by the Huh? experience." By creating a mystery, the writer-astronomer made dust interest- ing. He sustained attention, not just for the span of a punch line but for the span of a twenty-page article dense with information on scien- tific theories and experimentation. Cialdini began to create mysteries in his own classroom, and the power of the approach quickly became clear. He would introduce the mystery at the start of class, return to it during the lecture, and reveal the answer at the end. In one lecture, though, the end-of-class bell rang before he had time to reveal the solution. He says, "Normally five to ten minutes before the scheduled end time, some students start preparing to leave. You know the signals—penc ils are put away, notebooks folded, backpacks zipped up." This time, though, the class 82 MADE TO STICK was silent. "After the bell rang, no one moved. In fact, when I tried to end the lecture without revealing the mystery, I was pelted with protests." He said he felt as if he'd discovered dynamite. Cialdini believes that a major benefit of teaching using mysteries is that "the process of resolving mysteries is remarkably similar to the process of science." So, by using mysteries, teachers don't just heighten students' interest in the day's material; they train them to think like scientists. Science doesn't have a monopoly on mysteries. Mysteries exist wherever there are questions without obvious answers. Why is it so hard to get pandas at the zoo to breed? Why don't customers like our new product? What's the best way to teach kids about fractions? Notice what is happening here: We have now moved to a higher level of unexpectedness. In the Nordstrom example, the Nordie sto- ries had a punchy immediacy: Nordies warm up customers' cars! When you hear this, your past schema of customer service is called up, contradicted, and refined, all in a short