tagline reads, "Something soft between you and the pavement." The majority of the winners are composed of Pictorial Analogy and Extreme Consequences. The other templates were Extreme Situations (in which a product is shown performing under unusual circumstances or in which a product's attribute is exaggerated to the extreme), Competition (in which a product is shown winning in competition with another product, often in an unusual usage situation), Interactive Experiments (where listeners interact with the product directly—see "Testable Credentials " in Chapter 4), and Di- mensionality Alteration (e.g., a time leap that shows the long-run implica- tions of a decision). NOTES 261 1. Simple 29 Herb Kelleher... once told: James Carville and Paul Begala, Buck Up, Suck Up, and Come Back When You Foul Up (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2002), 88. This is one of the most interesting books we've found about the dy- namics of political campaigns, and there's a chapter on how to communicate in a political campaign that echoes several of the principles we cover in this book: tell stories ("facts tell but stories sell"), be emotional, and be unique (their version of "Unexpected"). 31 A healthy 17-year-old heart: Jonathan Bor, "It F luttered and Became Bruce Murray's Heart," Syracuse Post-Standard, May 12, 1984. 31 Jerusalem, Nov. 4: Barton Gellman, "Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin Is Killed," Washington Post, November 5,1995. Chip Scanlon has a great col- lection of online columns describing the tradecraft of journalism, including one that contains the two headlines here: www.poynter.org/column.asp?id= 52&aid=35609. 31 the inverted pyramid arose: Rich Cameron, "Under standing the Lead and the Inverted Pyramid Structure Are Staples of Journalism 101 Classes," The Inverted Pyramid, 2003. See www.cerritosjournalism.com, in the section en- titled " 101 — Newswriting." 33 "It was simple": Carville's advice to remember the basics is from Maty Matalin and James Carville, All's Fair: Love, War, and Running for President (New York: Random House, 1994), 244. The Clinton interchange leading up to the "If you say three things, you don't say anything" quote is on page 175. 34 In 1954, the economist L. J. Savage: Leonard J. Savage, The Foundations of Statistics (New York: Wiley, 1954). 35 Amos Tversky and Eldar Shafir: The study about the Christmas vacation in Hawaii study is in Amos Tversky and Eldar Shafir, "The Disjunction Effect in Choice Under Uncertainty," Psychological Science 3 (1992): 305-9. The lecture/foreign film/library study is found in Donald A. Redelmeier and Eldar Shafir, "Medical Decision Making in Situations That Offer Multiple Alternatives," Journal of the American Medical Association 273 (1995): 302-6. The phenomenon of decision paralysis is pronounced even for professionals. Redelmeier and Shafir show that doctors will delay in prescribing any treat- ment when they are forced to choose among multiple good treatments. 38 Sun Exposure: Precautions and Protection: Message 1 of the Sun Exposure Idea Clinic is from http://ohioline.osu.edu/hyg-fact/5000/5550.html. 47 Cervantes denned proverbs: The discussion of proverbs is based on Paul 262 NOTES Hernandi and Francis Steen, "The Tropical Landscapes of Proverbial: A Crossdisciplinary Travelogue," Style 33 (1999): 1-20. 50 "The real barrier to the initial PDAs": Tom Kelley, The Art of Innovation: Lessons in Creativity from IDEO, America's Leading Design Firm (New York: Doubleday Currency, 2001). 51 J FKFB INAT OUP: The letter/acronym exercise demonstrates the classic principle of "chunking" from cognitive psychology. Working memory is suffi- cient to hold only about seven independent pieces of information. (See George Miller's classic description in "The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two," Psychological Review 63 (1956): 81-97. In the first exercise, the chunks are letters, and most people can hold about seven of them. In the sec- ond, the chunks are pre-stored acronyms; people can remember around seven acronyms even though they each contain multiple letters. By taking ad- vantage of preexisting chunks of information, we can cram more information into a limited attentional space. 54 Psychologists define schema: Schemas are part of the standard tool kit of cognitive and social psychology. For an interesting discussion of schemas in social perception, see Chapters 4 and 5 of Susan T. Fiske and Shelley E. Tay- lor, Social Cognition, 2nd ed. (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1991). For an inter- esting summary of cognitive psychology research on schemas, see Chapter 2 of David C. Rubin, Memory in Oral Traditions: The Cognitive Psychology of Epic, Ballads, and Counting-out Rhymes (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1995). An analogy is a good way of helping people access t he knowledge in a schema. Educational psychologists have published a number of papers on the value of analogies in learning new material, particularly Richard Mayer. In a 1980 paper, he helped students learn to progra m the language of a data- base. One group of students was given analogies for the structure of the com- puter: "The long-term storage function of the computer was described as a file cabinet; the sorting function was described as an in-basket, save basket, and discard basket on an office desk." When students were confronting easy problems, the analogies didn't matter much, but when the problems became more complex, students who had been given analogies were about twice as good as the others. See R. Mayer, "Elaborate Techniques That Increase the Meaningfulness of Technical Text: An Experimental T est of the Learning Strategy Hypothesis," Journal of Educational Psychology 72 (1980): 770-84. Metaphor is another way of allowing people to acces s the knowledge in a schema. George Lakoff has, in a number of books, shown how deep metaphors structure the way that we understand and talk about the world NOTES 263 (e.g., George Lakoff and Mark Johnson, Metaphors We Live By [Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1980]). For example, we talk about and think of love as a journey (Look at how far we've come. We're at a crossroads. We're off track.) Lakoff has been better than anyone else at recognizing the pervasive ways in which such metaphors affect our communication, but metaphors need not be deep or pervasive to be useful in conveying a message; they just need to be shared by the relevant audience, as in the discussion of "high con- cept" in Hollywood. 60 Good metaphors are "generative": D. A. Schon, "G enerative Metaphor: A Perspective on Problem-Solving in Social Policy," in Metaphor and Thought, 2nd ed., edited by A. Ortony, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993). 60 Disney calls its employees "cast members": The e xamples from Disney are from: Disney Institute, Be Our Guest: Perfecting the Art of Customer Servic e (New York: Disney Editions, 2001). 2. Unexpected 63 A flight attendant named Karen Wood: It's no accident that Karen Wood was a flight attendant on Southwest Airlines. See Kevin Freiberg and Jackie Freiberg, Nuts! Southwest Airlines' Crazy Recipe for Business and Personal Success (Austin, Tex.: Bard Press, 1996), 209-10. 68 "the surprise brow": Paul Ekman and Wallace V. F riesen, Unmasking the Face: A Guide to Recognizing Emotions from Facial C lues (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1975). The role of surprise is an understudied topic in psychology, because it falls in the cracks between psychological disciplines. Cognitive researchers who study attention and learning find it too emotional; social psychologists who study emotions such as anger, fear, and disgust find it too cognitive. Yet you could make