there's a wall in our minds separating the little picture—stories, for instance—from the b ig picture. Spot- ting requires us to tear down that wall. How do we tear down the wall? As a rough analogy, t hink about the way we buy gifts for loved ones. If we know that Christmas or a birthday is approaching, there's a little nagging process that opens up in our minds, reminding us that "Dad is a gadget guy, so keep an eye out for cool gadgets." It's barely conscious, but if we happen upon a Retractable Roto-Laser-Light on December 8, chances are we'll im- mediately spot it as a possible fit for Dad. The analogy to the idea world is maintaining a deeply ingrained sense of the core message that we want to communicate. Just as we can put on Dad Gift Glasses, allowing us to view merchandise from his perspective, we can also put on Core Idea Glasses, allowing us to filter incoming ideas from that perspective. If you're a Nordstrom manager, obsessed with improving customer service, this filter helps you spot the warming-cars episode as a symbol of perfection, rather than as an interesting anecdote. In the Introduction, we debunked the common assumption that you need natural creative genius to cook up a great idea. You don't. But, beyond that, it's crucial to realize that creation, period, is unnec- 242 EPILOGUE essary. Think of the ideas in this book that were spotted rather than created: Nordies. Jared. The mystery of Saturn's rings. Pam Laffin, the smoking antiauthority. The nurse who ignored the heart monitor, listened with her stethoscope, and saved the baby's life. If you're a great spotter, you'll always trump a great creator. Why? Because the world will always produce more great ideas than any single individ- ual, even the most creative one. The Speakers and the Stickers Each year in the second session of Chip's "Making Ideas Stick" class at Stanford, the students participate in an exercise, a kind of testable credential to show what kinds of messages stick and don't stick. The students are given some data from a government sour ce on crime patterns in the United States. Half of them are asked to make a one- minute persuasive speech to convince their peers that nonviolent crime is a serious problem in this country. The other half are asked to take the position that it's not particularly serious. Stanford students, as you'd expect, are smart. They also tend to be quick thinkers and good communicators. No one in the room ever gives a poor speech. The students divide into small groups and each one gives a one- minute speech while the others listen. After each speech, the listeners rate the speaker: How impressive was the delivery? How persuasive? What happens, invariably, is that the most polished speakers get the highest ratings. Students who are poised, smooth, and charis- matic are rated at the top of the class. No surprise, right? Good speak- ers score well in speaking contests. The surprise comes next. The exercise appears to be over; in fact, Chip often plays a brief Monty Python clip to kill a few minutes and distract the students. Then, abruptly, he asks them to pull out a sheet of paper and write down, for each speaker they heard, every single idea that they remember. EPILOGUE 243 The students are flabbergasted at how little they remember. Keep in mind that only ten minutes have elapsed since the speeches were given. Nor was there a huge volume of information to begin with—at most, they've heard eight one-minute speeches. And yet the students are lucky to recall one or two ideas from each speaker's presentation. Many draw a complete blank on some speeches —unable to remem- ber a single concept. In the average one-minute speech, the typical student uses 2.5 sta- tistics. Only one student in ten tells a story. Those are the speaking statistics. The "remembering" statistics, on the other hand, are al- most a mirror image: When students are asked to rec all the speeches, 63 percent remember the stories. Only 5 percent remember any indi- vidual statistic. Furthermore, almost no correlation emerges between "speaking talent" and the ability to make ideas stick. The people who were cap- tivating speakers typically do no better than others in making their ideas stick. Foreign students—whose less-polished E nglish often leaves them at the bottom of the speaking-skills rankings—are sud- denly on a par with native speakers. The stars of stickiness are the stu- dents who made their case by telling stories, or by tapping into emotion, or by stressing a single point rather than ten. There is no question that a ringer—a student who came into the exercise having read this book—would squash the other students. A c ommunity col- lege student for whom English is a second language could easily out- perform unwitting Stanford graduate students. Why can't these smart, talented speakers make their ideas stick? A few of the villains discussed in this book are implicated. The first vil- lain is the natural tendency to bury the lead—to-ge t lost in a sea of in- formation. One of the worst things about knowing a lot, or having access to a lot of information, is that we're tempted to share it all. High school teachers will tell you that when students write research papers they feel obligated to include every unearthed fact, as though the value were in the quantity of data amassed rather than in its pur- 244 EPILOGUE pose or clarity. Stripping out information, in order to focus on the core, is not instinctual. The second villain is the tendency to focus on the presentation rather than on the message. Public speakers naturally want to appear composed, charismatic, and motivational. And, certainly, charisma will help a properly designed message stick better. But all the charisma in the world won't save a dense, unfocused speech, as some Stanford students learn the hard way. More Villains There are two other key villains in the book that the Stanford stu- dents don't have to wrestle with. The first is decision paralysis—the anxiety and irrationality that can emerge from excessive choice or ambiguous situations. Think about the students who missed both a fantastic lecture and a great film because they couldn't decide which one was better, or how hard it was for Jeff Hawkins, the leader of the Palm Pilot development group, to get his team to focus on a few is- sues rather than on many. To beat decision paralysis, communicators have to do the hard work of finding the core. Lawyers must stress one or two points in their closing arguments, not ten. A teacher's lesson plans may contain fifty concepts to share with her students, but in order to be effective that teacher must devote most of her efforts to making the most criti- cal two or three stick. Managers must share proverb s —"Names, names, and names" or "THE low-fare airline" —that h elp employees wring decisions out of ambiguous situations. The archvillain of sticky ideas, as you know by now, is the Curse of Knowledge. The Stanford students didn't face the Curse of Knowledge because the