the vast majority of these hundreds of small decisions. But his employees don't suffer from decision paralysis, because Adams's Commander' s Intent is clear: "Names, names, and names." Adams can't be everywhere. But by finding the core and communicating it clearly, he has made him- self everywhere. That's the power of a sticky idea. Simple = Core + Compact Adams is a clever wordsmith, but his most useful bit of wordplay is probably his least clever: "Names, names, and names." This phrase is 46 MADE TO STICK useful and memorable because it is highly concrete, but also because it is highly succinct. This example illustrates a second aspect of sim- plicity: Simple messages are core and compact. At one level, the idea of compactness is uncontroversial. Rarely will you get advice to make your communications lengthy and con- voluted, unless you write interest-rate disclosures for a credit card company. We know that sentences are better than par agraphs. Two bullet points are better than five. Easy words are better than hard words. It's a bandwidth issue: The more we reduce the amount of in- formation in an idea, the stickier it will be. But let's be clear: Compactness alone isn't enough. We could latch on to a compact message that isn't core; in other words, a pithy slogan that doesn't reflect our Commander's Intent. Compact mes- sages may be sticky, but that says nothing about their worth. We can imagine compact messages that are lies ("The earth is flat"), compact messages that are irrelevant ("Goats like sprouts") , and compact mes- sages that are ill-advised ("Never let a day pass without a shoe pur- chase"). In other cases, compactness itself can come to seem an unworthy goal. Lots of us have expertise in particular areas. Becoming an expert in something means that we become more and more fascinated by nu- ance and complexity. That's when the Curse of Knowledge kicks in, and we start to forget what it's like not to know what we know. At that point, making something simple can seem like "dumbing down." As an expert, we don't want to be accused of propagating sound bites or pandering to the lowest common denominator. Simplif ying, we fear, can devolve into oversimplifying. So if we're going to define "simple" as core and compact, we need to assure ourselves that compactness is worth striving for. We've al- ready got core, why do we need compact? Aren't "str ipped-down" ideas inherently less useful than fully elaborated ideas? Suppose we took compactness to its most extreme form. Is it possible to say some- thing meaningful in the span of a sound bite? SIMPLE 47 "A Bird in the Hand" For thousands of years, people have exchanged sound bites called proverbs. Proverbs are simple yet profound. Cervantes defined prov- erbs as "short sentences drawn from long experience." Take the En- glish-language proverb: "A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush." What's the core? The core is a warning against giving up a sure thing for something speculative. The proverb is short and simple, yet it packs a big nugget of wisdom that is useful in many situations. As it turns out, this is not just an English-language proverb. In Sweden, the saying is "Rather one bird in the hand than ten in the woods." In Spain: "A bird in the hand is better than a hundred flying birds." In Poland: "A sparrow in your hand is better than a pigeon on the roof." In Russia: "Better a titmouse in the hand than a crane in the sky." Other variants can be found in Romanian, Italian, Portuguese, German, Icelandic, and even medieval Latin. The first documented case in English is from John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress in 1678. But the proverb may be much older still. In one of Aesop's fables, a hawk seizes a nightingale, who pleads for its life, arguing that it is too tiny a morsel to satisfy the hawk. The hawk replies, "I would be foolish to re- lease the bird I have in my hand to pursue another bird that is not even in sight." This story dates from 570 B.C. The "bird in hand" proverb, then, is an astoundingly sticky idea. It has survived for more than 2,500 years. It has spread across conti- nents, cultures, and languages. Keep in mind that nobody funded a "bird in hand" advertising campaign. It spreads on its own. Many other proverbs share this longevity. In fact, a repertoire of proverbs has been found in almost every documented culture. Why? What is their purpose? Proverbs are helpful in guiding individual decisions in environ- ments with shared standards. Those shared standards are often ethi- cal or moral norms. Proverbs offer rules of thumb for the behavior of individuals. The Golden Rule, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," is so profound that it can influence a lifetime of behavior. The Golden Rule is a great symbol of what we're chasing in this chapter: ideas that are compact enough to be sticky and mean- ingful enough to make a difference. Great simple ideas have an elegance and a utility that make them function a lot like proverbs. Cervantes's definition of "proverbs" echoes our definition of Simple ideas: short sentences (compact) drawn from long experience (core). We are right to be skeptical of sound bites, because lots of sound bites are empty or misleading— they're compact without being core. But the Simple we're chasing isn't a sound bite, it's a proverb: compact and core. Adams managed to turn his core idea —the need to fo cus relent- lessly on local issues — into a journalistic prover b. "Names, names, and names" is an idea that helps guide individual decision-making in a community of shared standards. If you're a photographer, the prov- erb has no value as a literal statement, unless you plan to shoot name tags. But when you know that your organization thrives on names — i.e., the specific actions taken by specific members of the local com- munity—that knowledge informs the kinds of photo op s you look for. Do you shoot the boring committee deliberations or the gorgeous sunset over the park? Answer: the boring committee deliberations. Palm Pilot and the Visual Proverb Compact ideas help people learn and remember a core message. But they may be even more important when it comes time to help people act properly, particularly in an environment where they have to make lots of choices. Why do remote controls have more buttons than we ever use? The answer starts with the noble intentions of engineers. Most tech- nology and product-design projects must combat "feature creep," the SIMPLE 49 tendency for things to become incrementally more co mplex until they no longer perform their original functions ver y well. A VCR is a case in point. Feature creep is an innocent process. An engineer looking at a prototype of a remote control might think to herself, "Hey, there's some extra real estate here on the face of the control. And there's some extra processing capacity on the chip. Rather than let it go to waste, what if we give people