"It is important to think about the problem, learn more about it, think about what you can do, take steps to deal with it. ... Resolving it could reduce your stress, make you feel pleased with how you dealt with it, and help you grow from the experience." After receiving these instructions, this "control group" was sent home and asked to report back to the lab a week later. A second group of students, the "event-simulation" group, were kept in the lab. They were asked to mentally simulate how the prob- lem had unfolded: We would like you to visualize how this problem arose. Visualize the beginning of the problem, going over in detail the first inci- dent. . . . Go over the incidents as they occurred step by step. Vi- sualize the actions you took. Remember what you said, what you did. Visualize the environment, who was around, where you were. The event-simulation participants had to retrace, step by step, the events that led to their problem. Presumably, reviewing the chain of causation might help the students think about how to fix the prob- lem, like programmers engaged in systematic debuggi ng. STORIES 211 A third group, the "outcome-simulation" group, was asked to mentally simulate a positive outcome emerging from the problem: Picture this problem beginning to resolve, you are coming out of the stressful situation.... Picture the relief you feel. Visualize the satisfaction you would feel at having dealt with the problem. Pic- ture the confidence you feel in yourself, knowing that you have dealt successfully with the problem. The outcome-simulators kept their focus on the desired future out- come: What will it be like once this problem is behind me? After this initial exercise, both of the simulation groups were sent home. Both groups were asked to spend five minutes every day re- peating their simulations, and to report back to the lab a week later. Now it's play-at-home time: Make a quick prediction about which group of students fared best in coping with their problems. (Hint: It's not the control group.) Here's the answer: The event-simulation group—the p eople who simulated how the events unfolded —did better on al most every di- mension. Simulating past events is much more helpful than simulat- ing future outcomes. In fact, the gap between the groups opened up immediately after the first session in the lab. By the first night, the event-simulation people were already experiencing a positive mood boost compared with the other two groups. When the groups returned a week later, the event si mulators' ad- vantage had grown wider. They were more likely to have taken spe- cific action to solve their problems. They were more likely to have sought advice and support from others. They were more likely to re- port that they had learned something and grown. You may find these results a bit counterintuitive, because the pop- psychology literature is full of gurus urging you to visualize success. It turns out that a positive mental attitude isn't quite enough to get the 212 MADE TO STICK job done. Maybe financial gurus shouldn't be telling us to imagine that we're filthy rich; instead, they should be telling us to replay the steps that led to our being poor. Why does mental simulation work? It works because we can't imagine events or sequences without evoking the same mod- ules of the brain that are evoked in real physical activity. Brain scans show that when people imagine a flashing light, they activate the vi- sual area of the brain; when they imagine someone tapping on their skin, they activate tactile areas of the brain. The activity of mental simulation is not limited to the insides of our heads. People who imagine words that start with b or p can't resist subtle lip movements, and people who imagine looking at the Eiffel Tower can't resist mov- ing their eyes upward. Mental simulation can even alter visceral physical responses: When people drink water but imagine that it's lemon juice, they salivate more. Even more surprisingly, when peo- ple drink lemon juice but imagine that it's water, they salivate less. Mental simulations help us manage emotions. There i s a standard treatment for phobias of various kinds—spiders, pub lic speaking, air- plane travel, and others. Patients are introduced to a relaxation pro- cedure that inhibits anxiety, and then asked to visualize exposure to the thing they fear. The first visualizations start at the periphery of the fear. For example, someone who's afraid of air travel might start by thinking about the drive to the airport. The therap ist leads the patient through a series of visualizations that get closer and closer to the heart of the fear ("Now the airplanes' engines are revving up on the run- way, sounding louder and louder. . ."). Each time the visualizations create anxiety, the person pauses for a moment and uses the relax- ation technique to restore equilibrium. Notice that these visualizations focus on the events themselves— the process, rather than the outcomes. No one has ever been cured of a phobia by imagining how happy they'll be when it's gone. STORIES 213 Mental simulation helps with problem-solving. Even in mundane planning situations, mentally simulating an event helps us think of things that we might otherwise have neglected. Imagining a trip to the grocery store reminds us that we could drop off the dry cleaning at the store in the same shopping center. Mental simulations help us anticipate appropriate responses to future situations. Picturing a po- tential argument with our boss, imagining what she will say, may lead us to have the right words available when the time comes (and avoid saying the wrong words). Research has suggested that mental re- hearsal can prevent people from relapsing into bad habits such as smoking, excessive drinking, or overeating. A man trying to kick a drinking problem will be better off if he mentally rehearses how he will handle Super Bowl Sunday: How should he respond when some- one gets up for beers? Perhaps most surprisingly, mental simulation can also build skills. A review of thirty-five studies featuring 3,214 par ticipants showed that mental practice alone —sitting quietly, withou t moving, and pic- turing yourself performing a task successfully from start to finish — improves performance significantly. The results were borne out over a large number of tasks: Mental simulation helped p eople weld better and throw darts better. Trombonists improved their playing, and com- petitive figure skaters improved their skating. Not surprisingly, men- tal practice is more effective when a task involves more mental activity (e.g., trombone playing) as opposed to physical activity (e.g., balancing), but the magnitude of gains from mental practice is large on average: Overall, mental practice alone produced about two thirds of the benefits of actual physical practice. The takeaway is simple: Mental simulation is not as good as actu- ally doing something, but it's the next best thing. And, to circle back to the world of sticky ideas, what we're suggesting is that the right kind of story is, effectively, a simulation. Stories are like flight simula- tors for the brain. Hearing the nurse's heart-monitor story isn't like